{"10000000":{"title":"Optical properties of excitons under an axial-potential perturbation.","abstract":""},"10430074":{"title":"Adenovirus-mediated wild-type p53 gene transfer as a surgical adjuvant in advanced head and neck cancers.","abstract":"A high incidence of locoregional failure contributes to the poor overall survival rate of around 50% for patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck (SCCHN). In vitro and in vivo preclinical work with adenovirus-mediated wild-type p53 gene transfer using the recombinant p53 adenovirus (Ad-p53) has shown its promise as a novel intervention strategy for SCCHN. These data have translated into Phase I and Phase II studies of Ad-p53 gene transfer in patients with advanced, locoregionally recurrent SCCHN. The safety and overall patient tolerance of Ad-p53 has been demonstrated. Of 15 resectable but historically noncurable patients in the surgical arm of a Phase I study, 4 patients (27%) remain free of disease, with a median follow-up time of 18.25 months. Surgical and gene transfer-related morbidities were minimal. These results provide preliminary support for the use of Ad-p53 gene transfer as a surgical adjuvant in patients with advanced SCCHN. The implications of our findings for the management of SCCHN in general are discussed."},"10515829":{"title":"Potent induction of focused Th1-type cellular and humoral immune responses by RTS,S/SBAS2, a recombinant Plasmodium falciparum malaria vaccine.","abstract":"The RTS,S/SBAS2 vaccine confers sterile protection against Plasmodium falciparum sporozoite challenge. The mechanisms underlying this are of great interest, yet little is known about the immune effector mechanisms induced by this vaccine. The immune responses induced by RTS,S/SBAS2 were characterized in 10 malaria-naive volunteers. Several epitopes in the circumsporozoite protein (CSP) were identified as targets of cultured interferon (IFN)-gamma-secreting CD4+ T cells. RTS,S-specific IFN-gamma-secreting effector T cells were induced in 8 subjects; this ex vivo response mapped to a single peptide in Th2R. CSP-specific CD8+ cytotoxic T lymphocytes were not detected. RTS, S-specific IFN-gamma production was universal, whereas interleukin-4 and -5 production was rare. RTS,S-specific lymphoproliferative responses and antibodies to CSP were strongly induced in all volunteers. Responses waned with time but were boostable. Thus, RTS, S/SBAS2 is a potent inducer of Th1-type cellular and humoral immunity. These results highlight possible immune mechanisms of protection and have important implications for vaccine design in general."},"10516626":{"title":"Response-selective C5a agonists: differential effects on neutropenia and hypotension in the rat.","abstract":"Some in vivo activities of two complement C5a agonist analogues have been evaluated by measuring changes in blood pressure and neutropenia in the rat and comparing the results with their receptor affinities in peritoneal macrophages and polymorphonuclear leucocytes (PMNs). In vitro C5a receptor (C5aR) binding experiments showed that YSFKPMPLaR and YSFKD(NMeNle)PlaR had similar affinities for the macrophage C5aR (IC50 0.2, 0.1 microM respectively). In PMNs, the affinity of YSFKPMPLaR (IC50 0.1 microM) was similar to that in macrophages, whereas the affinity of YSFKD(NMeNle)PLaR for the PMN C5aR was >100 microM. Given i.v., YSFKD(NMeNle)PLaR had similar activity to YSFKPMPLaR on blood pressure but did not cause neutropenia. These results demonstrate selectivity of a new C5a agonist in vitro, which is paralleled in vivo. The results suggest the possibility of developing selective agonists of C5a for in vivo use in humans."},"10629843":{"title":"[A phase I trial of adenoviral p53 gene therapy for non-small cell lung cancer].","abstract":"Lung cancer is one of the leading causes of cancer deaths worldwide. The high mortality rate for lung cancer results from the absence of standard therapeutic strategies, suggesting that lung cancer may be a suitable target disease for a novel gene-based therapy. Restoration of the function of a single pivotal gene product appears sufficient to mediate antitumor effects that are potentially clinically significant. Preclinical studies in animal models have demonstrated tumor regression following intratumoral administration of an adenovirus vector containing The wild-type tumor suppressor p53 gene. The efficacy and safety of the p53 gene therapy protocol for non-small cell lung cancer are now being evaluated in clinical trials. Although much research needs to be done following trials in the earliest stages, the treatment may offer a unique mechanism of action with a potentially high therapeutic index. This article reviews recent highlights in this rapidly evolving field."},"10717336":{"title":"A nonionic block co-polymer adjuvant (CRL1005) enhances the immunogenicity and protective efficacy of inactivated influenza vaccine in young and aged mice.","abstract":"The use of adjuvants is one approach to improve influenza vaccine immunogenicity and efficacy, particularly in aged populations. The response of BALB/c mice to subcutaneously administered formalin-inactivated whole influenza virus vaccine in the presence or absence of a nonionic block copolymer adjuvant CRL1005 was evaluated. In young adult naïve mice, the copolymer adjuvant significantly enhanced virus-specific IgG and hemagglutination-inhibition (HI) antibody responses and augmented the production of IL-2 following vaccination. Influenza vaccine formulated with 2.5 mg CRL1005 significantly enhanced the protective efficacy of the inactivated vaccine in the upper and lower respiratory tract. In mice previously infected with influenza virus or naïve aged mice, inactivated vaccine administered with the copolymer adjuvant substantially enhanced the serum HI antibody response to inactivated influenza vaccine and significantly reduced lung virus titers following subsequent challenge with live virus compared with mice administered vaccine alone. These results suggest that the copolymer adjuvant warrants further investigation as a potential adjuvant for use in human vaccination against influenza."},"10799917":{"title":"Induction of an antigen-specific CTL response by a conformationally biased agonist of human C5a anaphylatoxin as a molecular adjuvant.","abstract":"A conformationally biased decapeptide agonist of human C5a anaphylatoxin (YSFKPMPLaR) was used as a molecular adjuvant in stimulating an Ag-specific CTL response against murine P815S target cells expressing an Ld-restricted CTL epitope of the hepatitis B surface Ag (HBsAg). Groups of BALB/c mice (H-2d) were immunized with aqueous solutions of the HBsAg CTL epitopes (IPQSLDSWWTSL and IPQSLDSWWTSLRR); the C5a agonist (YSFKPMPLaR); the C5a agonist and HBsAg CTL epitopes admixed (IPQSLDSWWTSL and IPQSLDSWWTSLRR + YSFKPMPLaR); the C5a-active, HBsAg CTL epitope-C5a agonist constructs (IPQSLDSWWTSLYSFKPMPLaR, IPQSLDSWWTSLRRYSFKPMPLaR, and IPQSLDSWWTSLRVRRYSFPMPLaR); a C5a-inactive, reverse-moiety construct (YSFKPMPLaRRRIPQSLDSWWTSL); and a C5a-attenuated, carboxyl-terminal-blocked construct (IPQSLDSWWTSLRRYSFKPMPLaRG). Ag-specific CD8+ CTL responses were observed after the secondary boost in the absence of any added adjuvant only in mice that were immunized with C5a-active contructs, IPQSLDSWWTSLRRYSFKPMPLaR and IPQSLDSWWTSLRVRRYSFKPMPLaR. These two C5a-active immunogens contained potential subtilisin-sensitive linker sequences between the HBsAg CTL epitope and the C5a agonist; i.e., a double-Arg (RR) and a furin protease sensitive sequence (RVRR). The introduction of these potentially cleavable sequences may be a method of increasing the likelihood of liberating the CTL epitope from the C5a agonist by intracellular proteases, thereby facilitating entry of the epitope into Ag-processing pathways via an exogenous route."},"10892371":{"title":"The role of the liver environment in the regulation of colon cancer metastasis.","abstract":""},"11063495":{"title":"Calcium phosphate nanoparticle adjuvant.","abstract":"Vaccination to protect against human infectious diseases may be enhanced by using adjuvants that can selectively stimulate immunoregulatory responses. In a murine model, a novel nanoparticulate adjuvant composed of calcium phosphate (CAP) was compared with the commonly used aluminum (alum) adjuvants for its ability to induce immunity to herpes simplex virus type 2 (HSV-2) and Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) infections. Results indicated that CAP was more potent as an adjuvant than alum, elicited little or no inflammation at the site of administration, induced high titers of immunoglobulin G2a (IgG2a) antibody and neutralizing antibody, and facilitated a high percentage of protection against HSV-2 infection. Additional benefits of CAP include (i) an insignificant IgE response, which is an important advantage over injection of alum compounds, and (ii) the fact that CAP is a natural constituent of the human body. Thus, CAP is very well tolerated and absorbed. These studies were performed with animal models. By virtue of the potency of this CAP adjuvant and the relative absence of side effects, we believe that this new CAP formulation has great potential for use as an adjuvant in humans."},"1111111":{"title":"Evaporative water loss in box turtles: effects of rostral brainstem and other temperatures.","abstract":"Box turtles were implanted with thermodes astride the preoptic tissue of the brainstem. The rate of evaporative water loss could be transiently increased by heating the rostral brainstem. Heating tissue in the anterior hypothalamus affected evaporative water loss only a high ambient temperatures. The magnitude of the response was proportional both to the change in hypothalamic temperature and to the ambient temperature with which the turtle was in equilibrium. The major fuction of a high rate of evaporative water loss in turtles is probably to protect the brain from overheating during thermal stress."},"11134269":{"title":"Modulation of immunity against herpes simplex virus infection via mucosal genetic transfer of plasmid DNA encoding chemokines.","abstract":"In this study, we examined the effects of murine chemokine DNA, as genetic adjuvants given mucosally, on the systemic and distal mucosal immune responses to plasmid DNA encoding gB of herpes simplex virus (HSV) by using the mouse model. The CC chemokines macrophage inflammatory protein 1beta (MIP-1beta) and monocyte chemotactic protein 1 (MCP-1) biased the immunity to the Th2-type pattern as judged by the ratio of immunoglobulin isotypes and interleukin-4 cytokine levels produced by CD4(+) T cells. The CXC chemokine MIP-2 and the CC chemokine MIP-1alpha, however, mounted immune responses of the Th1-type pattern, and such a response rendered recipients more resistant to HSV vaginal infection. In addition, MIP-1alpha appeared to act via the upregulation of antigen-presenting cell (APC) function and the expression of costimulatory molecules (B7-1 and B7-2), whereas MIP-2 enhanced Th1-type CD4(+) T-cell-mediated adaptive immunity by increasing gamma interferon secretion from activated NK cells. Our results emphasize the value of using the mucosal route to administer DNA modulators such as chemokines that function as adjuvants by regulating the activity of innate immunity. Our findings provide new insight into the value of CXC and CC chemokines, which act on different innate cellular components as the linkage signals between innate and adaptive immunity in mucosal DNA vaccination."},"11251876":{"title":"Genetically manipulated bacterial toxin as a new generation mucosal adjuvant.","abstract":"Cholera toxin (CT) and heat-labile toxin (LT) of Escherichia coli act as adjuvants for the enhancement of mucosal and serum antibody (Ab) responses to mucosally co-administered protein antigen (Ag). Both LT and CT induce B7-2 expression on antigen-presenting cells (APCs) for subsequent co-stimulatory signalling to CD4+ T cells. CT directly affects CD4+ T cells activated via the TCR-CD3 complex with selective inhibition of Th1 responses whereas LT maintains Th1 cytokine responses with inhibition of interleukin (IL)-4 production. Interestingly, while CT failed to induce mucosal adjuvant activity in the absence of IL-4, LT did so. Nontoxic mutant (m)CTs (S61F and E112K) retain adjuvant properties by inducing CD4+ Th2 cells, which provided effective help for the Ag-specific mucosal immunoglobulin (Ig)A, as well as serum IgG1, IgE and IgA Ab responses. The mCT E112K has been shown to exhibit two distinct mechanisms for its adjuvanticity. Firstly, mCT enhanced the B7-2 expression of APCs. Secondly, this nontoxic CT derivative directly affected CD4+ T cells and selectively inhibited Th1 cytokine responses. Thus, several lines of evidence indicate that enzyme activity can be separated from adjuvant properties of CT and this offers promise for the development of safe delivery of vaccines for mucosal IgA responses."},"11380697":{"title":"Zymosan enhances the immune response to DNA vaccine for human immunodeficiency virus type-1 through the activation of complement system.","abstract":"In the present study, the adjuvant effect of zymosan on human immunodeficiency virus type-1 (HIV-1)-specific DNA vaccine and the mechanism of this enhancement were studied in a murine model. We coinoculated zymosan with our candidate HIV-1 specific DNA vaccine (pCMV160IIIB) into skeletal muscles of BALB/c mice. Higher levels of both humoral immune response and HIV-specific delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH) response were observed when zymosan was coinoculated with pCMV160IIIB compared with that obtained using pCMV160IIIB alone. HIV-specific cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) activity was also enhanced. This enhancing activity was suppressed when coinoculated to the fifth complement (C5)-deficient DDD and AKR mice. The enhanced activity was also suppressed when anti-C3 antibody was inoculated to mice intramuscularly. There was significant induction of immunoglobulin G2a (IgG2a) and interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) in pCMV160IIIB vaccine with zymosan. These results suggest that zymosan-mediated DNA vaccination enhances helper T cell (Th) 1-mediated immunity. The effect is suggested to be based on the consequences of its recruitment and activation of macrophages, dendritic cells or antigen-presenting cells (APC) through complement activation, especially through the alternative pathway. Taken together, these results suggest that zymosan can be an effective immunological adjuvant in DNA vaccination against HIV-1."},"11429124":{"title":"Enhanced avidity maturation of antibody to human immunodeficiency virus envelope: DNA vaccination with gp120-C3d fusion proteins.","abstract":"DNA vaccination can elicit both humoral and cellular immune responses and can confer protection against several pathogens. However, DNA vaccines expressing the envelope (Env) protein of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) have been relatively ineffective at generating high titer, long-lasting, neutralizing antibodies in a variety of animal models. In this study, we report that fusion of Env and the complement component, C3d, in a DNA vaccine, enhances the titers of antibody to Env. Plasmids were generated that expressed a secreted form of Env (sgp120) from three isolates of HIV and these same forms fused to three tandem copies of the murine homologue of C3d (sgp120-3C3d). Analyses of titers and avidity maturation of the raised antibody indicated that immunizations with each of the sgp120-3C3d-expressing DNAs accelerated both the onset and the avidity maturation of antibody to Env."},"11440628":{"title":"A genetic immunization adjuvant system based on BVP22-antigen fusion.","abstract":"DNA vaccines must induce a greater immune response to be effective in the biomedical industry. Therefore, we tested the trafficking trait of the bovine herpesvirus 1 (BHV-1) protein VP22 (BVP22) fused to an antigen and applied this unique trait to genetic immunization. DNA immunization with BVP22-antigen stimulates immune responses superior to that of standard DNA immunization. Mice were injected intramuscularly with gene constructs expressing the antigen yellow fluorescent protein (YFP), YFP fused to BVP22, or YFP fused to BHV-1 tegument protein VP16 (BVP16). The results revealed a significantly enhanced YFP antibody response with BVP22-YFP DNA immunization compared with either YFP or BVP16-YFP gene immunization. Notably, the BVP22-YFP DNA construct induced a stronger T helper 1 (Th1) response, based on IFN-gamma and IL-4 cytokine levels, and IgG2a/IgG1 ratios. Furthermore, BVP22-YFP genetic immunization induced a greater cytotoxic T lymphocyte response. The genetic adjuvant properties of BVP22 can make DNA vaccines much more effective clinically."},"11529662":{"title":"Transduction of human MCP-3 by a parvoviral vector induces leukocyte infiltration and reduces growth of human cervical carcinoma cell xenografts.","abstract":"The oncosuppressive properties of some autonomous parvoviruses such as H-1 virus, together with their low pathogenicity, make them attractive vectors for tumor-directed gene therapy. Indeed, it was recently shown that these viruses became endowed with an enhanced oncosuppressive activity after they had been engineered to deliver a recognized therapeutic transgene. This prompted us to use a parvoviral vector to analyse the antineoplastic capacity of MCP-3 (monocyte chemotactic protein-3), a CC chemokine which has a broad spectrum of target cells, and can thus be considered to be a promising candidate for cancer treatment. We explored the use of a parvovirus H-1-based vector encoding human MCP-3 for its antitumor potential on human cervical carcinoma cells. HeLa cells were infected in vitro with the recombinant virus hH1/MCP-3 at a low multiplicity [1 replication unit (RU)/cell] and we investigated the effect of parvovirus-mediated MCP-3 transduction on tumor formation and growth upon implantation of HeLa cells in nude mice. Infection of HeLa cells with hH1/MCP-3 led to secretion of high levels of MCP-3 and to significant retardation of tumor growth in recipient mice, as compared with HeLa cells that were either buffer-treated or infected with a MCP-3-free vector. Tumors from hH1/MCP-3-infected HeLa cells were heavily infiltrated with activated macrophages and showed increased numbers of dendritic cells. In addition, activated natural killer (NK) cells were also recruited into MCP-3-transduced tumors. These observations indicate that parvovirus H-1-transduced MCP-3 is able to exert a significant antitumor activity which is mediated, at least in part, through macrophages and NK cells, under conditions in which activated T cells are lacking."},"11544460":{"title":"IFN-gamma and IL-12 plasmid DNAs as vaccine adjuvant in a murine model of grass allergy.","abstract":"Plasmids encoding cytokines such as IFN-gamma and IL-12 are potential genetic adjuvants that might increase the effectiveness of allergen vaccines. The role of plasmids expressing the cytokines IFN-gamma (pIFN-gamma) and/or IL-12 (pIL-12) as adjuvants in modulating allergic immune responses, inflammation, and asthma was investigated in a murine model of Kentucky blue grass (KBG) allergy. Groups of naive B6D2F1 mice were vaccinated subcutaneously with KBG allergens and administered intramuscularly with pIFN-gamma, pIL-12, pIFN-gamma plus pIL-12, or a vector control. Mice were then sensitized with KBG allergens in alum (intraperitoneally) and later challenged intranasally. Mice were examined for modulation of specific immunity, prevention of the development of airway hyperresponsiveness, and inflammation. Mice vaccinated with cytokine plasmid adjuvants had relatively lower levels of total serum IgE and higher levels of grass allergen-specific IgG2a in comparison with control mice. The lowest IgE and highest IgG2a levels were found in mice vaccinated with the combination of pIFN-gamma and pIL-12 as an adjuvant. The vaccination of mice with both pIFN-gamma and pIL-12 as an adjuvant induced the highest level of T(H)1 cytokines, IFN-gamma, and IL-2 in comparison with mice given either of the plasmids alone. The most profound decrease in airway hyperresponsiveness and pulmonary inflammation was observed in mice receiving both pIFN-gamma and pIL-12 as an adjuvant. These results demonstrate that pIFN-gamma and pIL-12 together provide an effective adjuvant to parenteral grass allergen vaccines and show that this adjuvant can significantly enhance the effectiveness of allergen immunotherapy in human beings."},"11710544":{"title":"Differential activities of decapeptide agonists of human C5a: the conformational effects of backbone N-methylation.","abstract":"Analogues of the potent, conformationally biased, decapeptide agonist of human C5a anaphylatoxin, C5a(65-74)Y65,F67,P69,P71,D-Ala73 (YSFKPMPLaR, peptide 54), were synthesized with methyl groups occupying specific amide nitrogen atoms along the peptide backbone. This N-methylation induced crucial extended backbone conformations in a manner similar to the two Pro residues, but without eliminating the contributions made by the side-chain of the residue for which Pro was substituted. The presence of backbone N-methyl groups on peptide 54 analogues had pronounced detrimental effects on the ability to bind and activate C5aRs expressed on human PMNs, but not on the ability to contract smooth muscle of human umbilical artery. Several N-methylated analogues of peptide 54 (peptides 56, 67, 124, 125, and 137) were significantly more selective for smooth muscle contraction, which is mediated by tissue resident macrophages, than for enzyme release from PMNs. Indeed, peptide 67, YSFKDMP(MeL)aR was almost 3000-fold more selective for smooth muscle contraction than for PMN enzyme release. Consistent with these differential activities was the observation that peptide 67 expressed a significantly greater binding affinity to C5aRs expressed on rat macrophages than on rat PMNs. This differential activity was also observed in vivo in the rat where peptide 67 induced a hypotensive response similar to peptide 54 and rhuC5a, but without accompanying neutropenia."},"11780322":{"title":"Immunity induced by DNA vaccine of plasmid encoding the rhoptry protein 1 gene combined with the genetic adjuvant of pcIFN-gamma against Toxoplasma gondii in mice.","abstract":"To construct the eukáryotic expression recombinant plasmid, pcIFN-gamma, as a genetic adjuvant and observe the immune responses elicited by pcDNA3-rhoptry protein 1 (pc-ROP1) combined with pcIFN-gamma against Toxoplasma gondii (T. gondii) infection in mice. A fragment of the IFN-gamma gene was directly inserted into the pcDNA3 plasmid and identified by two restriction endonucleases digestion. pcIFN and pcROP1 DNA was injected into the left leg muscle of mice at a dosage of 100 micrograms, and a booster vaccination was given at the same dosage after two weeks. Control groups were injected with pcDNA3 blank plasmid or normal saline. At 30, 50 and 70 days after booster injection, kinetic tests were carried out: MTT assay for the proliferation response of T lymphocyte cells and the activity of NK cells, sandwich ABC-ELISA for the determination of IFN-gamma, IL-2 and IL-10; a serum enzymetic aassay for nitric oxide (NO) in sera and ELISA for the titer of IgG antibody in sera. The recombinant plasmid, pcIFN-gamma was constructed. The proliferation response of spleen T lymph cells, NK cell killing activity, and serum levels of IFN-gamma, IL-2 and NO in mice injected with pcROP1 and pcIFN-gamma were higher than in those injected with pcROP1 alone. There was no difference in IgG antibody levels between the two groups. The genetic adjuvant, pcIFN-gamma, could enhance the cellular immune response induced by DNA vaccine of pcROP1 in mice against Toxoplasma gondii infection."},"11781181":{"title":"Monocyte chemotactic protein-3.","abstract":"Monocyte chemotactic protein-3 (MCP-3) belongs to the MCP subgroup of CC chemokines that are structurally closely related but, which differ in receptor usage and hence in biological activities. MCP-3 is one of the most pluripotent chemokines since it activates all types of leukocytes, by binding to at least four different chemokine receptors. The natural protein is heterogeneous due to glycosylation and NH2-terminal processing. Only small amounts of MCP-3 are induced in various cell types by endogeneous (cytokines) or exogeneous (bacteria, viruses) agents. Nevertheless, this omnipotent chemokine, inducible in most body compartments, might play an important role in normal homeostasis as well as in various pathologies including cancer, auto-immune diseases and chronic inflammation."},"11803061":{"title":"Mutant Escherichia coli heat-labile enterotoxin [LT(R192G)] enhances protective humoral and cellular immune responses to orally administered inactivated influenza vaccine.","abstract":"Influenza vaccines capable of inducing both systemic and mucosal antibody responses are highly desirable. Optimal induction of mucosal IgA is accomplished by mucosal delivery of vaccine. Mucosal adjuvants may improve the immunogenicity and efficacy of vaccines delivered by this route. Here, we compare the adjuvant activities of a mutant of heat-labile enterotoxin from Escherichia coli [LT(R192G)] with those of the wildtype LT (wtLT) for oral vaccination with inactivated influenza vaccine in BALB/c mice. Compared with administration of oral influenza vaccine alone, co-administration of vaccine with LT(R192G) provided enhanced protection from infection in the upper and lower respiratory tract equivalent to and at similar doses as that obtained with wtLT. Likewise, LT(R192G) augmented virus-specific IgG and IgA responses in serum, lung and nasal washes and the numbers of virus-specific antibody-forming cells in spleen, lung and Peyer's patches in a manner comparable to wtLT. Virus-specific splenic CD4(+) cells from mice administered oral vaccine with either adjuvant produced a mixed Th1- and Th2-type cytokine response pattern. Taken together, these results indicate that LT(R192G), like wtLT, is a potent adjuvant for oral vaccination of mice with influenza vaccine."},"11929774":{"title":"Flt3 ligand as a vaccine adjuvant in association with HER-2/neu peptide-based vaccines in patients with HER-2/neu-overexpressing cancers.","abstract":"Dendritic cells (DCs) are potent antigen-presenting cells and have shown promise to function as \"natural\" vaccine adjuvants. Currently, most cancer vaccine trials using DCs generate autologous DCs ex vivo for each patient. Systemic treatment with Flt3 ligand (FL) results in a marked increase of DCs in tissues such as spleen and lymph nodes in mice and in the peripheral blood and skin of humans. In light of these observations, we questioned whether FL could be used systemically as a vaccine adjuvant to stimulate DC mobilization in vivo, circumventing the need to generate DCs ex vivo. Ten patients with HER-2/neu-overexpressing cancer were enrolled in a phase 1 study to receive a HER-2/neu peptide-based vaccine targeting the intracellular domain of the HER-2/neu protein. All patients received 20 microg/kg FL per day subcutaneously for 14 days. Five patients received the HER-2/neu peptide-based vaccine alone on day 7 of the 14-day cycle, and 5 patients received the vaccine admixed with 150 microg granulocyte macrophage-colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) on day 7 of the FL cycle. T-cell proliferative responses to HER-2/neu peptides and intracellular domain protein suggest that vaccine regimens including FL as an adjuvant were not effective in eliciting a significant HER-2/neu protein-specific T-cell proliferative response. However, including FL as a vaccine adjuvant was effective in boosting the precursor frequency of interferon-gamma-secreting HER-2/neu-specific T cells. The small sample size of each group, however, did not allow a statistically significant comparison of immune responses between the FL alone and FL with GM-CSF arms. Finally, vaccine regimens including FL as a vaccine adjuvant were associated with the development of apparent autoimmune phenomena in some patients."},"12":{"title":"The effect of adrenaline and of alpha- and beta-adrenergic blocking agents on ATP concentration and on incorporation of 32Pi into ATP in rat fat cells.","abstract":""},"12097469":{"title":"Potentiation of radioimmunotherapy with response-selective peptide agonist of human C5a.","abstract":"Physiologic barriers to the delivery of macromolecules to solid tumors are a major obstacle to the clinical success of radioimmunotherapy (RIT). Only a small fraction of the injected dose of the radiolabeled monoclonal antibody (mAb) localizes at the tumor site. This situation worsens as the tumor burden increases. It is hypothesized that improvements to RIT of adenocarcinoma can be realized by inclusion of vasoactive agents, in particular agents able to increase the vascular permeability of tumor capillaries. In these studies, a response-selective peptide agonist of human C5a, GCGYSFKPMPLaR (AP), was used to transiently increase tumor vascular permeability in an effort to improve RIT of solid tumors. Athymic mice xenografted with human colorectal adenocarcinoma LS174T were treated intravenously with low doses (9.25 MBq) of 131I-labeled mAb B72.3 in combination with various intravenous doses of AP. The progression of the disease or the loss of >20% body weight was taken as the endpoint. Biodistribution and tumor uptake kinetics were studied in the same tumor-antibody system. The uptake of 125I-B72.3 in LS174T xenografts increased in a dose-dependent manner with an apparent maximal effect between 3 and 6 h after intravenous administration of AP. Augmenting the dose of 9.25 MBq 131I-B72.3 with a single administration of 0.1 mg AP delayed tumor growth nearly 2-fold; the tumor quadrupling time (T(q)) was 14.2 +/- 3.3 d for 131I-B72.3 alone versus 26.0 +/- 3.6 d for 131I-B72.3 plus 0.1 mg AP (P < 0.001). An additional dose of 0.1 mg AP 24 h after 131I-B72.3 further improved the therapeutic outcome (T(q) = 48.5 +/- 7.9 d; P < 0.001) and resulted in several cases of tumor regression. The inclusion of agonist peptides of human C5a in the RIT scheme results in improved tumor responses without any manifest side effects."},"12204953":{"title":"Calcium phosphate nanoparticles induce mucosal immunity and protection against herpes simplex virus type 2.","abstract":"Previously we reported that calcium phosphate nanoparticles (CAP) represented a superior alternative to alum adjuvants in mice immunized with viral protein. Additionally, we showed that CAP was safe and elicited no detectable immunoglobulin E (IgE) response. In this study, we demonstrated that following mucosal delivery of herpes simplex virus type 2 (HSV-2) antigen with CAP, CAP adjuvant enhanced protective systemic and mucosal immunity versus live virus. Mice were immunized intravaginally and intranasally with HSV-2 protein plus CAP adjuvant (HSV-2+CAP), CAP alone, phosphate-buffered saline, or HSV-2 alone. HSV-2+CAP induced HSV-specific mucosal IgA and IgG and concurrently enhanced systemic IgG responses. Our results demonstrate the potency of CAP as a mucosal adjuvant. Furthermore, we show that systemic immunity could be induced via the mucosal route following inoculation with CAP-based vaccine. Moreover, neutralizing antibodies were found in the sera of mice immunized intranasally or intravaginally with HSV-2+CAP. Also, the results of our in vivo experiments indicated that mice vaccinated with HSV-2+CAP were protected against live HSV-2 infection. In conclusion, these preclinical data support the hypothesis that CAP may be an effective mucosal adjuvant that protects against viral infection."},"12213399":{"title":"Protective efficacy of a tandemly linked, multi-subunit recombinant leishmanial vaccine (Leish-111f) formulated in MPL adjuvant.","abstract":"Three immunodominant leishmanial antigens (TSA, LmSTI1 and LeIF) previously identified in the context of host response to infection in infected donors and BALB/c mice, as well as their ability to elicit at least partial protection against Leishmania major infection in the BALB/c mouse model, were selected for inclusion into a subunit based vaccine. This is based on the premise that an effective vaccine against leishmaniasis (a complex parasitic infection) would require a multivalent cocktail of several antigens containing a broader range of protective epitopes that would cover a wide range of MHC types in a heterogeneous population. For practical considerations of vaccine development, we report on the generation of a single recombinant polyprotein comprising the sequences of all three open reading frames genetically linked in tandem. The resulting molecule, Leish-111f, comprises an open reading frame that codes for a 111kDa polypeptide. Evaluation of the immunogenicity and protective efficacy of Leish-111f formulated with IL-12 revealed that the immune responses to the individual components were maintained and as well, rLeish-111f protected BALB/c mice against L. major infection to a magnitude equal or superior to those seen with any of the individual components of the vaccine construct or SLA, a soluble Leishmania lysate. But because rIL-12 is expensive and difficult to manufacture and its efficacy and safety as an adjuvant for human use is questionable, we screened for other adjuvants that could potentially substitute for IL-12. We report that monophosphoryl lipid A (MPL) plus squalene (MPL-SE) formulated with rLeish-111f elicited protective immunity against L. major infection. The demonstrated feasibility to manufacture a single recombinant vaccine comprising multiple protective open reading frames and the potential use of MPL-SE as a substitute for IL-12, takes us closer to the realization of an affordable and safe Leishmania vaccine."},"12487055":{"title":"Clinical update of Ad-p53 gene therapy for lung cancer.","abstract":"These preliminary Phase I and II gene therapy trials in NSCLC have demonstrated that Ad-p53 gene transfer is associated with low toxicity and evidence of antitumoral activity at the locoregional site. Effort to enhance antitumoral efficacy with chemotherapy and radiation therapy have not increased Ad-p53 toxicity and appear to be feasible. Randomized Phase III studies are now needed to determine the potential of Ad-p53 to improve overall survival in selected subsets of NSCLC patients. Future gene therapy research is required to develop systemic delivery systems and to overcome p53 tumor resistance. It is hoped that these efforts will ultimately lead to a novel mode of therapy to complement conventional chemotherapy, radiation therapy, and surgical treatment strategies."},"12538044":{"title":"Immunization to nicotine with a peptide-based vaccine composed of a conformationally biased agonist of C5a as a molecular adjuvant.","abstract":"This paper describes the synthesis of a nicotine hapten (Nic) that possesses a carboxyl sidearm functional group allowing for conjugation to a peptide via amide bond formation. Nic was attached to the N-terminal amino group of a 19-residue peptide composed of a conformationally biased agonist of human C5a (YSFKPMPLaR), which is used as a molecular adjuvant and a B cell epitope of human MUC1 glycoprotein (YKQGGFLGL) to yield a peptide-based nicotine vaccine, NicYKQGGFLGLYSFKPMPLaR. Rats immunized with this vaccine were significantly less sensitive to behavioral effects (a Pavlovian discrimination task) induced by their exposure to high concentrations of nicotine (0.4 mg/kg) relative to their non-vaccinated counterparts. The attenuation of these nicotine-induced behavioral effects emanated from the presence of nicotine-specific antibodies (Abs) that were present in the sera of vaccinated rats even after their repeated exposure to high concentrations of nicotine during the time required to perform the behavioral assays. These results suggest that immunization with NicYKQGGFLGLYSFKPMPLaR in the absence of adjuvant is an effective means of inducing a nicotine-specific Ab response, which is capable of attenuating nicotine-induced behavioral/psychoactive effects."},"12576434":{"title":"Activation of human melanoma reactive CD8+ T cells by vaccination with an immunogenic peptide analog derived from Melan-A/melanoma antigen recognized by T cells-1.","abstract":"As compared with natural tumor peptide sequences, carefully selected analog peptides may be more immunogenic and thus better suited for vaccination. However, T cells in vivo activated by such altered analog peptides may not necessarily be tumor specific because sequence and structure of peptide analogs differ from corresponding natural peptides. Three melanoma patients were immunized with a Melan-A peptide analog that binds more strongly to HLA-A*0201 and is more immunogenic than the natural sequence. This peptide was injected together with a saponin-based adjuvant, followed by surgical removal of lymph node(s) draining the site of vaccination. Ex vivo analysis of vaccine site draining lymph nodes revealed antigen-specific CD8+ T cells, which had differentiated to memory cells. In vitro, these cells showed accelerated proliferation upon peptide stimulation. Nearly all (16 of 17) of Melan-A-specific CD8+ T-cell clones generated from these lymph nodes efficiently killed melanoma cells. Patient immunization with the analog peptide leads to in vivo activation of T cells that were specific for the natural tumor antigen, demonstrating the usefulness of the analog peptide for melanoma immunotherapy."},"12763689":{"title":"Mucosal immunisation and adjuvants: a brief overview of recent advances and challenges.","abstract":"Mucosal immunisation may be used both to prevent mucosal infections through the activation of anti-microbial immunity and to treat selected autoimmune, allergic or infectious-immunopathological disorders through the induction of antigen-specific tolerance. The development of mucosal vaccines, whether for prevention of infectious diseases or for immunotherapy, requires antigen delivery and adjuvant systems that can efficiently help to present vaccine or immunotherapy antigens to the mucosal immune system. Promising advances have recently been made in the design of more efficient mucosal adjuvants based on detoxified bacterial toxin derivatives or CpG motif-containing DNA, and perhaps even more striking progress has been done in the use of virus-like particles as mucosal delivery systems for vaccines and of cholera toxin B subunit as antigen vector for immunotherapeutic tolerance induction. However, it is a memento that two recently developed mucosal vaccines for human use against rotavirus diarrhoea and influenza were withdrawn after a short period in the market because of adverse reactions among the vaccinees, thus emphasising the difficult and challenging task also for mucosal immunisation of combining vaccine and adjuvant efficacy with safety and acceptability."},"12899580":{"title":"CpG DNA as a vaccine adjuvant.","abstract":"Synthetic oligodeoxynucleotides containing unmethylated CpG motifs act as immune adjuvants, accelerating and boosting antigen-specific antibody responses by up to 500-fold. CpG motifs promote the production of T-helper 1 and pro-inflammatory cytokines and induce the maturation/activation of professional antigen-presenting cells (including macrophages and dendritic cells). These effects are optimized by maintaining close physical contact between the CpG DNA and the immunogen. Coadministering CpG DNA with a variety of vaccines has improved protective immunity in animal challenge models. Ongoing clinical studies indicate that CpG oligodeoxynucleotides are safe and well-tolerated when administered as adjuvants to humans and in some cases increase vaccine-induced immune responses."},"1431559":{"title":"Liposomes containing muramyl tripeptide phosphatidylethanolamine (MTP-PE) are excellent adjuvants for induction of an immune response to protein and tumor antigens.","abstract":"Liposomes containing the synthetic lipophilic analog of muramyl dipeptide, muramyl tripeptide phosphatidylethanolamine (MTP-PE), were used as adjuvants for the induction of humoral and cellular immune responses following immunization with protein or tumor antigens. Cellular immune reactions, including delayed-type hypersensitivity and lymphoproliferation in vitro, were observed following immunization of mice with a mixture of antigen and liposome-MTP-PE. Immunization with murine melanoma K1735 cells, admixed with liposomal MTP-PE, induced a protective immune response as demonstrated by the rejection of transplanted tumor cells. Antibody production was also induced following immunization with protein antigens admixed with liposome-MTP-PE. The efficacy of adjuvant activity following immunization with antigens admixed with liposome-MTP-PE was equal to or better than that of complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA). Moreover, liposome-MTP-PE did not have the toxic side effects associated with CFA. These data suggest that phospholipid liposomes containing MTP-PE are superior adjuvants and should receive consideration for vaccine therapy."},"1439130":{"title":"Adjuvant properties of stable water-in-oil emulsions: evaluation of the experience with Specol.","abstract":""},"15068862":{"title":"Resiquimod is a modest adjuvant for HIV-1 gag-based genetic immunization in a mouse model.","abstract":"DNA vaccines have been effective at generating useful immune responses in many animal species. However, it is clearly desirable to increase their potency. The identification of adjuvants that increase their cell-mediated immune (CMI) response is therefore an important goal. Resiquimod is an imiquimod analog proven to activate dendritic cells through TLR-7. The adjuvant capacity of resiquimod has not, to our knowledge, been studied in the context of genetic immunization. Here, we studied resiquimod as an adjuvant for plasmid vaccine therapy by intra-muscular immunization of BALB/c mice with HIV-1 gag DNA vaccine without and with several concentrations of resiquimod (ranging from 5-100nM). We observed that resiquimod moderately enhanced IFN-gamma production as measured by a peptide-based ELISPOT assay compared to that obtained in mice immunized with DNA gag only. Antigen-specific T-cell proliferation studies showed a several-fold increase in the stimulation index in mice immunized with DNA gag +50 nM of resiquimod as compared to mice receiving DNA gag alone. Antibody titer also increased, while the antibody isotyping data showed a strong Th1 biased type response. Analysis of cytokine production in serum samples demonstrated a stronger Th1 cytokine bias in the presence of resiquimod. Furthermore, relevant increase in IL-4 production, as measured by ELISPOT assay, was not observed. Our results show that resiquimod can have modest adjuvant activity, in a DNA formulation, driving the immune system towards a cell-mediated immune response. Additional studies involving this adjuvant for DNA vaccines are underway."},"15246629":{"title":"Effect of chemical adjuvants on DNA vaccination.","abstract":"DNA vaccination is useful for generating immune responses, particularly the cell-mediated immune response, in a wide variety of species. However, DNA vaccination generally induces only relatively weak responses; hence, various approaches have been developed recently in order to improve its efficacy or immunopotency. The use of a chemical adjuvant is one of them. Previously we have shown that Bupivacaine or Marcaine can modulate immune responses induced by DNA vaccines [Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. 90 (1993) 4156]. Following that lead, we have recently tested several additional chemicals for their usefulness as adjuvants in DNA inoculation. Of a total of five chemicals tested, levamisole exhibited strongest Th1 stimulatory activity whereas Tween 80 showed weakest Th1 activity, as determined by IgG2a production, and saline formulation induced weak T cell proliferation and DTH, in animals inoculated with a DNA construct expressing the foot-mouth disease viral capsule protein VP1. Furthermore, co-inoculation of levamisole increased the production of IFN-gamma by more than 100-fold as compared to that by DNA inoculation formulated in saline. In contrast, a previously reported chemical adjuvant, bupivacaine, stimulated only modest levels of overall antibody production, with relatively low level of Ig2a. These results demonstrate the usefulness of various chemicals, particularly levamisole, for modulating the outcome of DNA vaccination, in both the intensity of the immune response and the polarity of such response (toward Th1)."},"15308371":{"title":"Reduction of nasal colonization of nontypeable Haemophilus influenzae following intranasal immunization with rLP4/rLP6/UspA2 proteins combined with aqueous formulation of RC529.","abstract":"Nontypeable Haemophilus influenzae (NTHi) and Moraxella catarrhalis are common causative agents of human mucosal infections. To formulate a mucosal vaccine against these pathogens, recombinant lipidated P4 (rLP4) and P6 (rLP6) proteins of NTHi and ubiquitous cell surface protein A (UspA) of M. catarrhalis were used for active immunization experiments in a mouse nasal challenge model. BALB/c mice were immunized intranasally with these proteins formulated with a chemically synthesized adjuvant, RC529 in an aqueous formulation (RC529-AF). Three weeks after the last immunization, these animals were challenged intranasally with NTHi strain SR7332.P1 and nasal colonization measured 3 days later. To determine local and systemic immune responses, bronchoalveolar washes (BAW) and sera were collected prior to NTHi challenge. The serum and mucosal samples were analyzed by ELISA for rLP4, rLP6 and UspA2 protein-specific IgG, IgG subclass and IgA antibody titers and bactericidal titers were determined against the TTA24 and 430-345 strains of M. catarrhalis. Results of these experiments show that these proteins combined with RC529-AF administered intranasally to mice elicited (1) significantly increased rLP4/rLP6/UspA2 protein-specific circulating IgG and IgA antibody responses; (2) local rLP4/rLP6/UspA2-specific IgA responses in the respiratory tract; and (3) more than a two log reduction of nasal colonization of NTHi strain SR7332 from the nasal tissues of mice. The serum IgG subclass distribution was predominantly IgG2a, representing a Th1 response. The antiserum also exhibited bactericidal activities to several strains of M. catarrhalis. These data indicate that intranasal immunization with rLP4/rLP6/UspA2 proteins combined with RC529-AF may be able to provide a way for inducing local mucosal immunity and for prevention of otitis media in children."},"15479440":{"title":"Development of a nasal vaccine for chronic hepatitis B infection that uses the ability of hepatitis B core antigen to stimulate a strong Th1 response against hepatitis B surface antigen.","abstract":"There are estimated to be 350 million chronic carriers of hepatitis B infection worldwide. Patients with chronic hepatitis B are at risk of liver cirrhosis with associated mortality because of hepatocellular carcinoma and other complications. An important goal, therefore, is the development of an effective therapeutic vaccine against chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV). A major barrier to the development of such a vaccine is the impaired immune response to HBV antigens observed in the T cells of affected patients. One strategy to overcome these barriers is to activate mucosal T cells through the use of nasal vaccination because this may overcome the systemic immune downregulation that results from HBV infection. In addition, it may be beneficial to present additional HBV epitopes beyond those contained in the traditional hepatitis B surface antigen (HbsAg) vaccine, for example, by using the hepatitis B core antigen (HBcAg). This is advantageous because HBcAg has a unique ability to act as a potent Th1 adjuvant to HbsAg, while also serving as an immunogenic target. In this study we describe the effect of coadministration of HBsAg and HBcAg as part of a strategy to develop a more potent and effective HBV therapeutic vaccine."},"15560948":{"title":"Biodegradable poly(lactic-co-glycolic acid) microparticles for injectable delivery of vaccine antigens.","abstract":"Injectable biodegradable polymeric particles (usually microspheres) represent an exciting approach to control the release of vaccine antigens to reduce the number of doses in the immunization schedule and optimize the desired immune response via selective targeting of antigen to antigen presenting cells. After the first couple of decades of their study, much progress has been made towards the clinical use of antigen-loaded microspheres. Poly(lactide-co-glycolic acids) (PLGAs) have been studied most commonly for this purpose because of their proven safety record and established use in marketed products for controlled delivery of several peptide drugs. PLGA microspheres have many desirable features relative to standard aluminum-based adjuvants, including the microspheres' ability to induce cell-mediated immunity, a necessary requirement for emergent vaccines against HIV and cancer. This review examines several impediments to PLGA microparticle development, such as PLGA-encapsulated antigen instability and deficiency of animal models in predicting human response, and describes new trends in overcoming these important issues. PLGA microparticles have displayed unprecedented versatility and safety to accomplish release of one or multiple antigens of varying physical-chemical characteristics and immunologic requirements, and have now met numerous critical benchmarks in development of long-lasting immunity after a single injected dose."},"1583768":{"title":"A piece of my mind. The great wait.","abstract":""},"15841203":{"title":"Adjuvant IL-7 or IL-15 overcomes immunodominance and improves survival of the CD8+ memory cell pool.","abstract":"Current models of T cell memory implicate a critical role for IL-7 in the effector-to-memory transition, raising the possibility that IL-7 therapy might enhance vaccine responses. IL-7 has not been studied, to our knowledge, before now for adjuvant activity. We administered recombinant human IL-7 (rhIL-7) to mice during immunization against the male antigen HY and compared these results with those obtained from mice immunized with rhIL-2 and rhIL-15. Administration of rhIL-7 or rhIL-15, but not rhIL-2, increased effector cells directed against these dominant antigens and dramatically enhanced CD8(+) effectors to subdominant antigens. The mechanisms by which the cytokines augmented effector pool generation were multifactorial and included rhIL-7-mediated costimulation and rhIL-15-mediated augmentation of the proliferative burst. The contraction phase of the antigen-specific response was exaggerated in cytokine-treated mice; however, CD8(+) memory pools in rhIL-7- or rhIL-15-treated groups demonstrated superior long-term survival resulting in quantitative advantages that remained long after the cytokines were discontinued, as demonstrated by improved survival after challenge with an HY-expressing tumor undertaken several weeks after cytokine cessation. These results confirm the adjuvant activity of rhIL-15 and demonstrate that rhIL-7 also serves as a potent vaccine adjuvant that broadens immunity by augmenting responses to subdominant antigens and improving the survival of the CD8(+) T cell memory pool."},"15953835":{"title":"Adjuvants and antibody production: dispelling the myths associated with Freund's complete and other adjuvants.","abstract":"Adjuvants have been used for more than 70 yr to enhance the immune response of the host animal to an antigen. Among the mechanisms that adjuvants use to enhance the immune response are the \"depot\" effect, antigen presentation, antigen targeting, immune activation/modulation, and cytotoxic lymphocyte induction. The immunostimulatory properties of adjuvants result in inflammation, tissue destruction, and the potential for resulting pain and distress in the host animal. The inflammatory lesions produced by adjuvants such as Freund's complete adjuvant (FCA) have led some to conclude that pain and distress are present, even in cases where the scientific evidence fails to support this conclusion. Recommendations and regulations in the literature, based on available scientific evidence, provide guidance on total adjuvant volumes, volumes per site, routes of injection, booster injections, and adjuvants used for antibody production. Among the numerous adjuvants that are used for experimental antibody production reviewed in this article, many claim to be less inflammatory, tissue destructive, and painful than FCA while producing equal or superior antibody responses. Although no adjuvant surpasses FCA for experimental antibody production against a wide range of antigenic molecules, many produce excellent antibody responses with less inflammation and tissue destruction. Balancing the requisite degree of immuno-stimulation and the extent of inflammation, necrosis, and potential pain and distress requires consideration of the nature of the antigen, the host immune responsiveness, the adjuvant's mechanisms of action, and the desired end-product. In cases where the antigen is a weak immunogen or has a very limited availability, the type and role of adjuvant becomes a critical component in producing an acceptable immune response and humoral antibody response."},"16187717":{"title":"Escherichia coli O157:H7 vaccine field trial in 9 feedlots in Alberta and Saskatchewan.","abstract":"A feedlot trial was conducted to assess the efficacy of an Escherichia coli O157:H7 vaccine in reducing fecal shedding of E. coli O157:H7 in 218 pens of feedlot cattle in 9 feedlots in Alberta and Saskatchewan. Pens of cattle were vaccinated once at arrival processing and again at reimplanting with either the E. coli O157:H7 vaccine or a placebo. The E. coli O157:H7 vaccine included 50 microg of type III secreted proteins. Fecal samples were collected from 30 fresh manure patties within each feedlot pen at arrival processing, revaccination at reimplanting, and within 2 wk of slaughter. The mean pen prevalence of E. coli O157:H7 in feces was 5.0%; ranging in pens from 0% to 90%, and varying significantly (P < 0.001) among feedlots. There was no significant association (P > 0.20) between vaccination and pen prevalence of fecal E. coli O157:H7 following initial vaccination, at reimplanting, or prior to slaughter. Essai sur le terrain d’un vaccin contre Escherichia coli O157:H7 dans 9 parcs d’engraissement de l’Alberta et de la Saskatchewan. Un essai en parcs d’engraissement a été conduit afin de vérifier l’efficacité d’un vaccin contre Escherichia coli O157:H7 pour réduire l’élimination fécale de E. coli O157:H7 dans 218 enclos de 9 parcs d’engraissement de bovins en Alberta et en Saskatchewan. Les bestiaux ont été vaccinés au cours des procédures de réception en enclos et une 2ième fois lors de leur transfert avec le vaccin E. coli O157:H7 ou un placebo. Le vaccin E. coli O157:H7 comprenait 50 μg de protéines sécrétées de type III. Des échantillons fécaux ont été recueillis sur 30 bouses fraîches dans chaque enclos des parcs d’engraissement au cours des procédures de réception, à la revaccination lors du transfert et dans les 2 semaines précédant l’abattage. La prévalence moyenne en enclos de E. coli O157:H7 dans les fèces était de 5 %, allant de 0 % à 90 % dans les enclos et variant significativement (P < 0,001) entre les parcs d’engraissement. Il n’y avait pas d’association significative (P > 0,20) entre la vaccination et la prévalence en enclos de E. coli 0157:H7 dans les fèces à la suite des différentes vaccinations : initiale, au transfert ou avant l’abattage. (Traduit par Docteur André Blouin)"},"16204643":{"title":"The low-toxicity versions of LPS, MPL adjuvant and RC529, are efficient adjuvants for CD4+ T cells.","abstract":"Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) has long been known to enhance innate and adaptive immune responses; however, its extreme toxicity precludes its use in clinical settings. The combined toxicity and adjuvanticity of LPS have contributed to the view that immunological adjuvants need to be highly inflammatory to be maximally effective. Here, we compared the effects of LPS with its less-toxic derivatives, monophosphoryl lipid A (MPL) and a chemical mimetic, RC529, on CD4+ T cell clonal expansion, long-term survival, and T helper cell type 1 (Th1) differentiation. We found that LPS, MPL, and RC529 had similar effects on CD4+ T cell clonal expansion, cell division, and ex vivo survival. Analysis of the ability of activated CD4+ T cells to produce interferon-gamma following a 21-day immunization and challenge protocol with LPS and MPL resulted in similar Th1 differentiation. In contrast, we found that LPS was more effective in promoting long-term CD4+ T cell responses, as we recovered nearly sixfold more cells following immunization/challenge as compared with treatment with MPL. Our results indicate that low-inflammation adjuvants, such as MPL and RC529, are capable of enhancing short-term CD4+ T cell clonal expansion and Th1 differentiation, but inflammatory signaling aids in the long-term retention of antigen-specific T cells."},"16428759":{"title":"Flagellin is an effective adjuvant for immunization against lethal respiratory challenge with Yersinia pestis.","abstract":"Gram-negative flagellin, a Toll-like receptor 5 (TLR5) agonist, is a potent inducer of innate immune effectors such as cytokines and nitric oxide. In the lung, flagellin induces a localized and transient innate immune response characterized by neutrophil infiltration and the production of cytokines and chemokines. In view of the extraordinary potency of flagellin as an inducer of innate immunity and the contribution of innate responses to the development of adaptive immunity, we evaluated the efficacy of recombinant Salmonella flagellin as an adjuvant in an acellular plague vaccine. Mice immunized intranasally or intratracheally with the F1 antigen of Yersinia pestis and flagellin exhibited dramatic increases in anti-F1 plasma immunoglobulin G (IgG) titers that remained stable over time. In contrast, control mice had low or undetectable antibody responses. The IgG1/IgG2a ratio of antibody titers against F1 in immunized mice is consistent with a Th2 bias. However, no significant antigen-specific IgE production was detected. Interferons, tumor necrosis factor alpha, and interleukin-6 were not essential for the adjuvant effects of flagellin. Preexisting antiflagellin antibodies had no significant effect on the adjuvant activity of flagellin. Importantly, intranasal immunization with flagellin and the F1 antigen was protective against intranasal challenge with virulent Y. pestis CO92, with 93 to 100% survival of immunized mice. Lastly, vaccination of cynomolgus monkeys with flagellin and a fusion of the F1 and V antigens of Y. pestis induced a robust antigen-specific IgG antibody response."},"16514157":{"title":"The encapsulation of enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli colonization factor CS3 in biodegradable microspheres enhances the murine antibody response following intranasal administration.","abstract":"The aim of this study was to measure serum and mucosal antibody responses following intranasal administration of biodegradable poly(DL-lactide-co-glycolide) (PLGA) microspheres loaded with the CS3 colonization factor isolated from enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli (ETEC). The response was compared against that measured in mice similarly administered the native CS3 antigen and in mice co-administered, along with the CS3 antigen, a known mucosal adjuvant, the R192G mutant heat-labile enterotoxin (mLT). The integrity of the CS3 antigen released from the microspheres was maintained as determined by SDS-PAGE and immunoblotting. Native CS3 induced serum and mucosal (bronchoalveolar, small intestinal and faecal) IgG and IgA responses. The co-administration of the mLT mucosal adjuvant significantly enhanced (P<0.001) serum and mucosal antibody responses to the CS3 protein. Likewise, the CS3-loaded PLGA microspheres induced significantly greater (P<0.001) serum and mucosal antibody responses than native CS3, as well as inducing antibody responses superior to those of the CS3 plus mLT formulation. Following administration of CS3 plus mLT, the mice became distressed (loss of activity, increased huddling, ruffled fur), a situation not seen following administration of the CS3-loaded PLGA microspheres. The results in this trial show that the CS3-loaded PLGA microspheres when administered intranasally to mice caused no observable distress to the mice and significantly (P<0.001) enhanced the immunogenicity of the CS3 protein."},"16563456":{"title":"Augmenting the immunogenicity of DNA vaccines: role of plasmid-encoded Flt-3 ligand, as a molecular adjuvant in genetic vaccination.","abstract":"In this study, we have taken advantage of the unique property of a potent dendritic cell (DC) growth factor, Flt-3 ligand (FL), which could act as a vaccine adjuvant. Accordingly, a single injection of plasmid DNA coding for soluble FL (FLex) was shown to induce large numbers of DCs in various tissue compartments and was critical for generating high frequencies of antigen-specific (HIV gp120 and LCMV NP) immune responses in mice. Interestingly, this enhanced level of immune response is strictly dependent on the co-delivery (i.m.) of the DNA vaccines and hFLex DNA to mice harboring large numbers of DCs. The high frequencies of antigen-specific CD8(+) T cells were largely associated with the expansion phase of DCs in vivo. However, DC expansion and immune enhancement have not reciprocally maintained a linear correlation, suggesting that other factors, cytokines/chemokines, which have the potential to modulate the microenvironment of DCs, could influence immunological outcome in this vaccination modality."},"16651452":{"title":"Immunization of stage IV melanoma patients with Melan-A/MART-1 and gp100 peptides plus IFN-alpha results in the activation of specific CD8(+) T cells and monocyte/dendritic cell precursors.","abstract":"The use of IFN-alpha in clinical oncology has generally been based on the rationale of exploiting its antiproliferative and antiangiogenic activities. However, IFN-alpha also exhibits enhancing effects on T-cell and dendritic cell functions, which may suggest a novel use as a vaccine adjuvant. We have carried out a pilot phase I-II trial to determine the effects of IFN-alpha, administered as an adjuvant of Melan-A/MART-1:26-35(27L) and gp100:209-217(210M) peptides, on immune responses in stage IV melanoma patients. In five of the seven evaluable patients, a consistent enhancement of CD8(+) T cells recognizing modified and native MART-1 and gp100 peptides and MART-1(+)gp100(+) melanoma cells was observed. Moreover, vaccination induced an increase in CD8(+) T-cell binding to HLA tetramers containing the relevant peptides and an increased frequency of CD45RA(+)CCR7(-) (terminally differentiated effectors) and CD45RA(-)CCR7(-) (effector memory) cells. In all patients, treatment augmented significantly the percentage of CD14(+) monocytes and particularly of the CD14(+)CD16(+) cell fraction. An increased expression of CD40 and CD86 costimulatory molecules in monocytes was also observed. Notably, postvaccination monocytes from two of the three patients showing stable disease or long disease-free survival showed an enhanced antigen-presenting cell function and capability to secrete IP10/CXCL10 when tested in mixed leukocyte reaction assays, associated to a boost of antigen and melanoma-specific CD8(+) T cells. Although further clinical studies are needed to show the adjuvant activity of IFN-alpha, the present data represent an important starting point for considering a new clinical use of IFN-alpha and new immunologic end points, potentially predictive of clinical response."},"16734558":{"title":"Enhancing efficacy of HIV gag DNA vaccine by local delivery of GM-CSF in murine and macaque models.","abstract":"Controlled release of granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) protein by albumin-heparin microparticles administered via intramuscular vaccination in conjunction with HIV DNA vaccines stimulated HIV Gag-specific immune responses. In the murine model, Gag-specific cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) and T helper (Th) responses were significantly enhanced by administration of murine GM-CSF microparticles. This effect was comparable to a GM-CSF encoded plasmid. In three of four rhesus monkeys, enhancement of Gag-specific antibody (Ab), Th, and CTL responses was observed 1 month after the first immunization with coadministration of human GM-CSF microparticles and HIV Gag plasmid. The second, third, and fourth booster immunizations, however, did not increase the Gag-specific immune responses. Subsequent application of Gag protein in complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA) significantly enhanced Ab and Th, but not CTL. However, Gag-specific CTL response was triggered by cytokine and Gag p55-encapsulated microparticles in all animals. The strategy of priming immune responses by coadministration of cytokine microparticles and DNA vaccines, followed by boosting with cytokine and antigen protein-encapsulated microparticles, may prove effective in improving an HIV DNA vaccine design."},"16775309":{"title":"Toll-like receptor adaptor molecules enhance DNA-raised adaptive immune responses against influenza and tumors through activation of innate immunity.","abstract":"Toll-like receptors (TLRs) recognize microbial components and trigger the signaling cascade that activates the innate and adaptive immunity. TLR adaptor molecules play a central role in this cascade; thus, we hypothesized that overexpression of TLR adaptor molecules could mimic infection without any microbial components. Dual-promoter plasmids that carry an antigen and a TLR adaptor molecule such as the Toll-interleukin-1 receptor domain-containing adaptor-inducing beta interferon (TRIF) or myeloid differentiation factor 88 (MyD88) were constructed and administered to mice to determine if these molecules can act as an adjuvant. A DNA vaccine incorporated with the MyD88 genetic adjuvant enhanced antigen-specific humoral immune responses, whereas that with the TRIF genetic adjuvant enhanced cellular immune responses. Incorporating the TRIF genetic adjuvant in a DNA vaccine targeting the influenza HA antigen or the tumor-associated antigen E7 conferred superior protection. These results indicate that TLR adaptor molecules can bridge innate and adaptive immunity and potentiate the effects of DNA vaccines against virus infection and tumors."},"16944576":{"title":"[Molecular adjuvant C3d up-regulates both B7-1 and B7-2 expression on Raji cells].","abstract":"To explore modulation of the molecular adjuvant C3d in the hCGbeta -C3d3 fusion protein in costimulatory molecule expression on Raji cells by linking to the surface molecule CD21. Raji cells, B cell line, were incubated with the purified hCGbeta-C3d3, hCGbeta or C3d3 protein for 15 hours respectively in the interference of anti-CD21 monoclonal antibody or not. The culture concentration of each group was 10, 30, or 90 microg/ml respectively. The expression of both B7-1 and B7-2 on Raji cells were analyzed by flow cytometric assay. It was observed that compared to hCGbeta or C3d3 protein, hCGbeta-C3d3 up-regulated both B7-1 and B7-2 expression on the Raji cells, and the effect was in a dose-dependent manner. The up-regulation effect was blocked efficiently by anti-CD21 mAb. The results showed that molecular adjuvant C3d may up-regulate both B7-1 and B7-2 expression on Raji cell via C3d/CD21/CD19 complex, thus enhance the antigen presentation of B cell, and the interaction between B cell and T cell."},"17074853":{"title":"Secretion of functional monocyte chemotactic protein 3 by recombinant Mycobacterium bovis BCG attenuates vaccine virulence and maintains protective efficacy against M. tuberculosis infection.","abstract":"A strain of Mycobacterium bovis BCG that secretes high levels of functional murine monocyte chemotactic protein 3 (BCG(MCP-3)) was developed. Mice vaccinated with BCG(MCP-3) displayed increased lymphocyte migration in vivo and augmented antigen-specific T-cell responses compared to mice vaccinated with BCG alone. The level of protection afforded by BCG(MCP-3) was equivalent to that with control BCG; however, immunodeficient mice infected with BCG(MCP-3) survived significantly longer than mice infected with the control BCG strain. Therefore, BCG(MCP-3) may be a safer alternative than conventional BCG for vaccination of immunocompromised individuals."},"17484805":{"title":"PIKA as an adjuvant enhances specific humoral and cellular immune responses following the vaccination of mice with HBsAg plus PIKA.","abstract":"An adjuvant is usually used to enhance the immune response induced by vaccines. The choice of adjuvant or immune enhancer determines the effectiveness of the immune response. Currently, aluminium (Alum, a generic term for salts of aluminium) is the only FDA-approved adjuvant. Alum predominantly induces the differentiation of Th2 cells and thus mediates an antibody immune response. Therefore, there is an urgent need for new adjuvants that enhance not only humoral but also cellular immune responses. In the present study, we demonstrates that PIKA (a stabilized dsRNA) as an adjuvant directly induces the activation and the proliferation of both B and NK cells in vitro. Injection of PIKA into mice results in the production of cytokines in vivo. In addition, the study demonstrates that PIKA promotes the maturation of bone marrow-derived dendritic cells (BMDCs) including up-regulation of the co-stimulatory molecules CD80, CD86 and CD40, and the induction of cytokines such as IL-12p70, IL-12p40 and IL-6. Importantly, after immunization of mice with HBsAg plus PIKA, the presence of PIKA enhances the titers of HBsAg-specific IgG and HBsAg-specific IFN-gamma production. These results demonstrate that PIKA as an adjuvant can promote both humoral and cellular immune responses. These might have an implication in applying PIKA as an adjuvant to be used in the design and development of both therapeutic and preventive vaccines, and used in the clinical study."},"17581283":{"title":"Effect of alternative aluminum adjuvants on the absorption and immunogenicity of HPV16 L1 VLPs in mice.","abstract":"Aluminum adjuvants are commonly used in prophylactic vaccines to enhance antigen immunogenicity through induction of high-titer antibody responses. Three major forms of aluminum adjuvants with substantially different physical and chemical properties have been described: aluminum phosphate (AlPO(4)), aluminum hydroxide (AlOH) and amorphous aluminum hydroxyphosphate sulfate (AAHS). Here we describe the effect of these different aluminum adjuvants on the formulation and subsequent immunogenicity in mice of virus-like particles (VLPs) consisting of the L1 protein of Human Papillomavirus (HPV) Type 16. Electron microscopy demonstrated that the physical appearance of the phosphate-containing aluminum adjuvants was markedly different from that of aluminum hydroxide. All three aluminum adjuvants were found to display unique surface charge profiles over a range of pH, while AAHS demonstrated the greatest inherent capacity for adsorption of L1 VLPs. These differences were associated with differences in immunogenicity: anti-HPV L1 VLP responses from mice immunized with AAHS-formulated HPV16 vaccine were substantially greater than those produced by mice immunized with the same antigen formulated with aluminum hydroxide. In addition, HPV L1 VLPs formulated on AAHS also induced a substantial interferon-gamma secreting T cell response to L1 peptides indicating the potential for an enhanced memory response to this antigen. These results indicate that the chemical composition of aluminum adjuvants can have a profound influence on the magnitude and quality of the immune response to HPV VLP vaccines."},"18195029":{"title":"gp63 in stable cationic liposomes confers sustained vaccine immunity to susceptible BALB/c mice infected with Leishmania donovani.","abstract":"Visceral leishmaniasis is deadly if not treated, and development of a vaccine with long-term immunity remains a challenge. In this study, we showed that cationic distearoyl phosphatidylcholine (DSPC) liposomes, when used as vaccine adjuvant with the immunodominant 63-kDa glycoprotein (gp63) of Leishmania donovani promastigotes, induced significant protection against progressive visceral leishmaniasis in susceptible BALB/c mice. gp63 used without adjuvant elicited partial protection but in association with liposomes exhibited marked resistance in both the livers and spleens of the mice challenged 10 days after the last vaccination. The protective efficacy of liposomal gp63 vaccination was dose dependent, with 2.5 mug of protein showing optimal protection. The immunity conferred by this vaccine formulation was durable, as mice challenged 12 weeks after immunization were still protected, and the infection was controlled for at least 3 months postchallenge. Production of gamma interferon (IFN-gamma) and interleukin-4 (IL-4) by splenic T cells, and of serum immunoglobulin G1 (IgG1) and IgG2a following immunization, suggested that a mixed Th1/Th2 response had been induced following immunization. However, control of disease progression and parasitic burden in mice vaccinated with gp63 in cationic DSPC liposomes was associated with enhancement of antigen-specific IFN-gamma and downregulation of IL-4, demonstrating a Th1 bias. Long-term immunity elicited by this vaccine corresponded to, in addition to the presence of antigen-specific Th1, CD8+ T-cell responses. Our results demonstrated that stable cationic liposomes containing gp63 acted as a potent adjuvant for protein antigen to induce long-term protection against L. donovani that represents an alternative to DNA vaccination."},"18221313":{"title":"Melatonin as an adjuvant to therapeutic prostate cancer vaccines.","abstract":""},"18243429":{"title":"CTA1-M2e-DD: a novel mucosal adjuvant targeted influenza vaccine.","abstract":"At present few vaccine candidates exists against potentially pandemic influenza virus infections. We provide compelling evidence that a targeted fusion protein based on the CTA1-DD adjuvant and containing tandem repeats of the matrix protein 2 (M2e) ectodomain epitope, CTA1-3M2e-DD, confers strong protective immunity against a potentially lethal challenge infection with influenza virus in mice. The formulation was highly effective for mucosal immunizations and promoted high M2e-specific serum IgG and mucosal IgA antibody titers and an hitherto unknown anti-M2e CD4 T cell immunity. This novel CTA1-3M2e-DD fusion protein combines adjuvant and a conserved influenza A antigen in a promising candidate for a universal anti-influenza vaccine."},"18249478":{"title":"Evaluation of the effects of human leukocyte IFN-alpha on the immune response to the HBV vaccine in healthy unvaccinated individuals.","abstract":"HBV vaccine needs 3 injections over 6 months to induce immunity. Thus, the use of adjuvants capable of inducing earlier immune protection would be highly desirable. Most adjuvants may act by inducing cytokines, and among them, type I interferons (IFNs), deserve a special attention in view of the potent immunomostimulatory activity observed in mouse models and on dendritic cell functions. The aim of the present trial was to evaluate the effects of IFN-alpha administered as an adjuvant of HBV vaccine in healthy unvaccinated individuals. No significant enhancing effect on the antibody response was observed, in spite of an early and transient upregulation of costimulatory molecule expression on peripheral blood mononuclear cells, which may be suggestive of an IFN-mediated activation of antigen presenting cells. We conclude that, under the conditions used in this trial, natural IFN-alpha does not act as an adjuvant of the HBV vaccine in healthy unvaccinated individuals."},"18341617":{"title":"A novel, helminth-derived immunostimulant enhances human recall responses to hepatitis C virus and tetanus toxoid and is dependent on CD56+ cells for its action.","abstract":"We have described previously an immunostimulant derived from Onchocerca volvulus, the helminth parasite that causes onchocerciasis. Recombinant O. volvulus activation-associated secreted protein-1 (rOv-ASP-1) was a potent adjuvant for antibody and cellular responses to protein, polypeptide and small peptide antigens. Our aims were to determine whether rOv-ASP-1 is immunostimulatory for human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) and, if so, whether it could augment cellular responses against human pathogen antigens in vitro. Cytokines from rOv-ASP-1-stimulated human PBMC were measured by a fluorescence activated cell sorter-based multiplex assay. Recall responses of normal healthy donor (NHD) and chronic hepatitis C virus (c-HCV)-infected patient PBMC to tetanus toxoid (TT) or HCV core (HCVco) antigen, respectively, were measured by interferon-gamma enzyme-linked immunospot assays. Interferon-gamma was the predominant cytokine induced by rOv-ASP-1. 77.3% of NHD anti-TT and 88.9% of c-HCV anti-HCVco responses were enhanced by rOv-ASP-1. The immunostimulant effect was dependent upon contact between CD56+ and CD56- fractions of PBMC. We have described a helminth-derived protein that can act as an immunostimulant for human recall responses in vitro to TT and, perhaps more importantly, HCV antigens in patients with chronic HCV infection. Our longer-term goal would be to boost anti-viral responses in chronic infections such as HCV."},"18472194":{"title":"Efficient augmentation of a long-lasting immune responses in HIV-1 gag DNA vaccination by IL-15 plasmid boosting.","abstract":"Cytokines are major regulators of the immune response, and have been used as adjuvants to improve vaccine potency. In this study, we investigated the adjuvant effects of interleukin (IL)-15 on improving the immunogenicity of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-1 gag DNA vaccine in Balb/c mice. During a 370-day follow-up, cellular and humoral immune responses in three separate cohorts of mice were monitored. These results were exemplified through: lymphocyte proliferation, induction of antigen-specific CD8(+) T lymphocytes, long-term production of specific antibodies, and proportion of differentiated memory CD8(+) T cells. These data revealed that just boost of IL-15 at day 8 after co-immunization induced more homeostatic cell proliferation, augmented proliferation frequency of IFN-gamma-secreting antigen-specific CD8(+) T lymphocytes, maintained the long-lasting humoral immune response and promoted the turnover of memory T cell precursors into central memory T cells. Taken together, our data demonstrated that a single IL-15 boosting can enhance both the humoral and cellular immune responses of the HIV-1 gag DNA vaccination. This novel boosting strategy may facilitate the application of IL-15 as an adjuvant for HIV vaccination."},"18479788":{"title":"Engineered CCR5 superagonist chemokine as adjuvant in anti-tumor DNA vaccination.","abstract":"Chemokine receptors are promising targets for enhancing T-cell immunity and anti-cancer therapy. CCL5 is a potential adjuvant for DNA vaccination. We postulated that CCR5 superagonists could be even more effective. A CCR5 superagonist derived from natural CCL5 by directed in vitro evolution, namely 1P7, is used as a DNA vaccine adjuvant and expressed as fused chemokine-Ig (1P7-Ig). We show that OVA+1P7-Ig DNA co-inoculation induced higher frequencies of OVA-specific CD8 lymphocytes than OVA+CCL5-Ig or controls and gave an even better protection against tumor growth in a CCR5-dependant manner. Our results indicate that CCR5-superagonists may provide potent adjuvants for vaccines."},"18566444":{"title":"Immunization of malignant melanoma patients with full-length NY-ESO-1 protein using TLR7 agonist imiquimod as vaccine adjuvant.","abstract":"T cell-mediated immunity to microbes and to cancer can be enhanced by the activation of dendritic cells (DCs) via TLRs. In this study, we evaluated the safety and feasibility of topical imiquimod, a TLR7 agonist, in a series of vaccinations against the cancer/testis Ag NY-ESO-1 in patients with malignant melanoma. Recombinant, full-length NY-ESO-1 protein was administered intradermally into imiquimod preconditioned sites followed by additional topical applications of imiquimod. The regimen was very well tolerated with only mild and transient local reactions and constitutional symptoms. Secondarily, we examined the systemic immune response induced by the imiquimod/NY-ESO-1 combination, and show that it elicited both humoral and cellular responses in a significant fraction of patients. Skin biopsies were assessed for imiquimod's in situ immunomodulatory effects. Compared with untreated skin, topical imiquimod induced dermal mononuclear cell infiltrates in all patients composed primarily of T cells, monocytes, macrophages, myeloid DCs, NK cells, and, to a lesser extent, plasmacytoid DCs. DC activation was evident. This study demonstrates the feasibility and excellent safety profile of a topically applied TLR7 agonist used as a vaccine adjuvant in cancer patients. Imiquimod's adjuvant effects require further evaluation and likely need optimization of parameters such as formulation, dose, and timing relative to Ag exposure for maximal immunogenicity."},"18675867":{"title":"Evaluation of recombinant Onchocerca volvulus activation associated protein-1 (ASP-1) as a potent Th1-biased adjuvant with a panel of protein or peptide-based antigens and commercial inactivated vaccines.","abstract":"Alum, the only adjuvant approved for clinical applications, can induce strong humoral (Th2) but weak cellular (Th1) immune responses. It is necessary to develop safe and effective adjuvants capable of inducing both humoral and cellular immune responses. We previously showed that activation-associated protein-1 (ASP-1) derived from Onchocerca volvulus has potent adjuvant activity. In this study, we have further evaluated the adjuvanticity of recombinant ASP-1 using a panel of recombinant proteins or synthetic peptide-based antigens, including ovalbumin (OVA), synthetic HIV peptide (HIV-p), recombinant HIV gp41 (rgp41) and HBV HBsAg, as well as three commercially available inactivated vaccines against haemorrhagic fever with renal syndrome (HFRS), Influenza and Rabies. Our results indicate that ASP-1 induced significantly higher IgG1 (Th2-associated) and IgG2a (Th1-associated) responses than alum adjuvant against OVA antigen, HIV-p, and rgp41. Consistently, it induced similar level of IgG1 responses as alum but higher level of IgG2a and IFN-gamma-producing T cell responses than alum adjuvant against HBsAg. Further, ASP-1 improved both IgG1 and IgG2a responses to three commercial inactivated vaccines when used separately or in combination. In conclusion, the recombinant ASP-1, unlike alum adjuvant, is able to induce both Th1 and Th2-associated humoral responses and Th1 cellular responses, suggesting that it can be further developed as a promising adjuvant for subunit-based and inactivated vaccines."},"18776936":{"title":"Cationic liposomes formulated with synthetic mycobacterial cordfactor (CAF01): a versatile adjuvant for vaccines with different immunological requirements.","abstract":"It is now emerging that for vaccines against a range of diseases including influenza, malaria and HIV, the induction of a humoral response is insufficient and a substantial complementary cell-mediated immune response is necessary for adequate protection. Furthermore, for some diseases such as tuberculosis, a cellular response seems to be the sole effector mechanism required for protection. The development of new adjuvants capable of inducing highly complex immune responses with strong antigen-specific T-cell responses in addition to antibodies is therefore urgently needed. Herein, we describe a cationic adjuvant formulation (CAF01) consisting of DDA as a delivery vehicle and synthetic mycobacterial cordfactor as immunomodulator. CAF01 primes strong and complex immune responses and using ovalbumin as a model vaccine antigen in mice, antigen specific cell-mediated- and humoral responses were obtained at a level clearly above a range of currently used adjuvants (Aluminium, monophosphoryl lipid A, CFA/IFA, Montanide). This response occurs through Toll-like receptor 2, 3, 4 and 7-independent pathways whereas the response is partly reduced in MyD88-deficient mice. In three animal models of diseases with markedly different immunological requirement; Mycobacterium tuberculosis (cell-mediated), Chlamydia trachomatis (cell-mediated/humoral) and malaria (humoral) immunization with CAF01-based vaccines elicited significant protective immunity against challenge. CAF01 is potentially a suitable adjuvant for a wide range of diseases including targets requiring both CMI and humoral immune responses for protection."},"1887671":{"title":"The adjuvanticity of Algammulin, a new vaccine adjuvant.","abstract":"Algammulin is a suspension of 1-2 microns ovoids of the immune stimulant gamma inulin (g-IN) in which alum is embedded as a carrier for protein or other anionic antigens. Tests for specific IgG and seroconversion responses in mice immunized with keyhole limpet haemocyanin (KLH) show that the presence of g-IN on the alum has increased its adjuvanticity 6- to 17-fold (p less than 0.001), and thus has a synergistic effect. A mixture of alum and g-IN was no more active than alum alone. Low KLH doses at borderline seroconversion levels (0.1-1 microgram/mouse) allow comparison with a vaccine situation. The improved Algammulin responses extended to 58 days after primary doses and to memory recall after boost at 65 days. At 1 mg Algammulin i.p. in primary and secondary doses the anti-KLH IgG responses were equal to those from Freund's complete adjuvant. The g-IN on the alum increased all responses tested (IgG 1, 2a, 2b, 3 and total IgG, IgM, IgA and IgE), but changed the emphasis from that of alum (favouring mostly IgG 2a, IgG 2b and IgA)."},"19166891":{"title":"Melatonin enhances the immune response to vaccination against A1 and C strains of Dichelobacter nodosus.","abstract":"Melatonin has been shown to exert immunomodulatory properties with broad application in veterinary medicine. Here we have investigated the effect of exogenous melatonin in the improvement of the immune response to administration of an immune-preparation of two stumps of A1 and C strains of Dichelobacter nodosus in sheep. Subcutaneous administration of melatonin enhanced plasma levels of melatonin from days 42 to 120. Administration of melatonin to vaccinated animals enhanced both the titer of antibodies and serum IgG levels to A1 and C strains of D. nodosus compared to vaccinated animals not treated with melatonin. Our results suggest that melatonin increased the immune response to vaccination and open new perspectives in the design of prophylactic strategies."},"19285425":{"title":"A novel vaccine adjuvant for recombinant flu antigens.","abstract":"Many new vaccines under development consist of rationally designed recombinant proteins that are relatively poor immunogens unless combined with potent adjuvants. There is only one adjuvant in common use in the U.S., aluminum phosphate or hydroxide (e.g. alum). This adjuvant, however, has significant limitations, particularly regarding the generation of strong cell-mediated (T-cell) immune responses. A novel adjuvant, JVRS-100, composed of cationic liposome-DNA complexes (CLDC) has been evaluated for immune enhancing activity. The JVRS-100 adjuvant has been shown to elicit robust immune responses compared to CpG oligonucleotides, alum, and MPL adjuvants, and efficiently enhances both humoral and cellular immune responses. Safety has been evaluated in preclinical studies, and the adjuvant is now in early-stage clinical development. One application of this novel adjuvant is to augment the immune responses to recombinant subunit antigens, which are often poorly immunogenic. The JVRS-100 adjuvant, when combined with a recombinant influenza hemagglutinin (H1), elicited increased specific antibody and T-cell responses in mice. Single-dose vaccination and prime/boost vaccinations with JVRS-100-H1 were both shown to be protective (i.e., survival, reduced weight loss) following H1N1 (PR/8/34) virus challenge. Enhanced immunological responses could be critically important for improved efficacy and dose-sparing of a recombinant influenza vaccine."},"19428909":{"title":"Immune responses to methamphetamine by active immunization with peptide-based, molecular adjuvant-containing vaccines.","abstract":"Vaccines to methamphetamine (meth) were designed by covalently attaching a meth hapten (METH) to peptide constructs that contained a conformationally biased, response-selective molecular adjuvant, YSFKPMPLaR (EP54). Rats immunized with EP54-containing meth vaccines generated serum antibody titers to authentic meth, an immune outcome that altered meth self-administration. Immunization increased meth self-administration suggesting pharmacokinetic antagonism. The ability of immune sera to bind a METH-modified target protein dramatically decreased during and shortly after the meth self-administration assay, suggesting effective sequestration of free meth. However, the binding ability of immune sera to the METH-modified target protein was recovered 34 days after meth-free clearance time."},"19450632":{"title":"ISCOMs and ISCOMATRIX.","abstract":"Immunostimulatory complexes (ISCOMs) are particulate antigen delivery systems composed of antigen, cholesterol, phospholipid and saponin, while ISCOMATRIX is a particulate adjuvant comprising cholesterol, phospholipid and saponin but without antigen. The combination of an antigen with ISCOMATRIX is called an ISCOMATRIX vaccine. ISCOMs and ISCOMATRIX combine the advantages of a particulate carrier system with the presence of an in-built adjuvant (Quil A) and consequently have been found to be more immunogenic, while removing its haemolytic activity of the saponin, producing less toxicity. ISCOMs and ISCOMATRIX vaccines have now been shown to induce strong antigen-specific cellular or humoral immune responses to a broad range of antigens of viral, bacterial, parasite origin or tumor in a number of animal species including non-human primates and humans. These vaccines produced by well controlled and reproducible processes have also been evaluated in human clinical trials. In this review, we summarize the recent progress of ISCOMs and ISCOMATRIX, including preparation technology as well as their application in humans and veterinary vaccine designs with particular emphasis on the current understanding of the properties and features of ISCOMs and ISCOMATRIX vaccines to induce immune responses. The mechanisms of adjuvanticity are also discussed in the light of recent findings."},"19492047":{"title":"A liposome-based mycobacterial vaccine induces potent adult and neonatal multifunctional T cells through the exquisite targeting of dendritic cells.","abstract":"In the search for more potent and safer tuberculosis vaccines, CAF01 was identified as a remarkable formulation. Based on cationic liposomes and including a synthetic mycobacterial glycolipid as TLR-independent immunomodulator, it induces strong and protective T helper-1 and T helper-17 adult murine responses to Ag85B-ESAT-6, a major mycobacterial fusion protein. Here, we assessed whether these properties extend to early life and how CAF01 mediates its adjuvant properties in vivo. Following adult or neonatal murine immunization, Ag85B-ESAT-6/CAF01 similarly reduced the post-challenge bacterial growth of M. bovis BCG, whereas no protection was observed using Alum as control. This protection was mediated by the induction of similarly strong Th1 and Th17 responses in both age groups. Multifunctional Th1 cells were already elicited after a single vaccine dose and persisted at high levels for at least 6 months even after neonatal priming. Unexpectedly, this potent adjuvanticity was not mediated by a massive targeting/activation of dendritic cells: in contrast, very few DCs in the draining lymph nodes were bearing the labeled antigen/adjuvant. The increased expression of the CD40 and CD86 activation markers was restricted to the minute portion of adjuvant-bearing DCs. However, vaccine-associated activated DCs were recovered several days after immunization. The potent adult and neonatal adjuvanticity of CAF01 is associated in vivo with an exquisite but prolonged DC uptake and activation, fulfilling the preclinical requirements for novel tuberculosis vaccines to be used in early life."},"19528789":{"title":"Induction of novel CD8+ T-cell responses during chronic untreated HIV-1 infection by immunization with subdominant cytotoxic T-lymphocyte epitopes.","abstract":"To investigate the potential to induce additional cytotoxic T-lymphocyte (CTL) immunity during chronic HIV-1 infection. We selected infrequently targeted or subdominant but conserved HLA-A*0201-binding epitopes in Gag, Pol, Env, Vpu and Vif. These relatively immune silent epitopes were modified as anchor-optimized peptides to improve immunogenicity and delivered on autologous monocyte-derived dendritic cells (MDDCs). Twelve treatment-naïve HLA-A*0201 HIV-1-infected Danish individuals received 1 x 10 MDDCs subcutaneously (s.c.) (weeks 0, 2, 4 and 8), pulsed with seven CD8 T-cell epitopes and three CD4 T-cell epitopes. Epitope-specific responses were evaluated by intracellular cytokine staining for interferon-gamma, tumor necrosis factor alpha and interleukin-2 and/or pentamer labeling 3 weeks prior to, 10 weeks after and 32 weeks after the first immunization. Previously undetected T-cell responses specific for one or more epitopes were induced in all 12 individuals. Half of the participants had sustained CD4 T-cell responses 32 weeks after immunization. No severe adverse effects were observed. No overall or sustained change in viral load or CD4 T-cell counts was observed. These data show that it is possible to generate new T-cell responses in treatment-naive HIV-1-infected individuals despite high viral loads, and thereby redirect immunity to target new multiple and rationally selected subdominant CTL epitopes. Further optimization could lead to stronger and more durable cellular responses to selected epitopes with the potential to control viral replication and prevent disease in HIV-1-infected individuals."},"19608270":{"title":"Mucoadhesive liposomes for intranasal immunization with an avian influenza virus vaccine in chickens.","abstract":"The aim of this study was to characterize a nasally delivered bioadhesive liposome using an inactivated H5N3 virus as a model antigen. Bioadhesive liposomes were developed using tremella (T) or xanthan gum (XG) as the bioadhesive polysaccharide. Using chickens as the target animal, we evaluated whether delivery of a bioadhesive liposomal influenza vaccine via a mucosal site of infection could improve vaccine effectiveness. 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-5-(3-carboxymethoxyphenyl)-2-(4-sulfophenyl)-2H-tetrazolium (MTS) cytotoxicity assays demonstrated that T, XG and liposomes were non toxic to chicken spleen macrophages. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) was used to determine the adjuvant effect of the bioadhesive liposomal-vaccines. Chickens immunized with a low dose (200 microL) of bioadhesive liposomal influenza vaccine had significantly higher mucosal and serum antibody levels (P<0.05). In addition, liposomes mixed with a low-viscosity bioadhesive gel used for nasal delivery resulted in superior antibody responses compared with liposomes mixed with a high-viscosity gel (P<0.05). This suggest that a low-viscosity gel mixed with liposomes is more suitable for nasal delivery, and that chickens elicit higher mucosal secretory immunoglobulin A (s-IgA) and serum IgG after two vaccinations."},"19679214":{"title":"Enhanced humoral and Type 1 cellular immune responses with Fluzone adjuvanted with a synthetic TLR4 agonist formulated in an emulsion.","abstract":"Impairments in anti-influenza T helper 1 (Th1) responses are associated with greater risk of influenza-related mortality in the elderly. Addition of adjuvants to existing influenza vaccines could improve immune responses in the elderly. In this study, the activity of three adjuvants, an oil-in-water emulsion and a synthetic lipid A adjuvant formulated with or without the emulsion, is compared. Our results show that Fluzone combined with lipid A plus an emulsion effectively leads to greater vaccine-specific IgG2a and IgG titers, enhances hemagglutination-inhibition titers and induces Type 1 cytokine responses (IFN-gamma and IL-2) to each of the Fluzone components."},"19740322":{"title":"Co-immunization with an optimized plasmid-encoded immune stimulatory interleukin, high-mobility group box 1 protein, results in enhanced interferon-gamma secretion by antigen-specific CD8 T cells.","abstract":"DNA vaccination is a novel immunization strategy that has great potential for the development of vaccines and immune therapeutics. This strategy has been highly effective in mice, but is less immunogenic in non-human primates and in humans. Enhancing DNA vaccine potency remains a challenge. It is likely that antigen-presenting cells (APCs), and especially dendritic cells (DCs), play a significant role in the presentation of the vaccine antigen to the immune system. A new study reports the synergistic recruitment, expansion and activation of DCs in vivo by high-mobility group box 1 (HMGB1) protein. Such combinational strategies for delivering vaccine in a single, simple platform will hypothetically bolster the cellular immunity in vivo. Here, we combined plasmid encoding human immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1) Gag and Env with an HMGB1 plasmid as a DNA adjuvant in BALB/c mice (by intramuscular immunization via electroporation), and humoral and cellular responses were measured. Co-administration of this potent immunostimulatory adjuvant strongly enhanced the cellular interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) and humoral immune response compared with that obtained in mice immunized with vaccine only. Our results show that co-immunization with HMGB1 can have a strong adjuvant activity, driving strong cellular and humoral immunity that may be an effective immunological adjuvant in DNA vaccination against HIV-1."},"19836478":{"title":"Enhancement of in vivo and in vitro immune functions by a conformationally biased, response-selective agonist of human C5a: implications for a novel adjuvant in vaccine design.","abstract":"A conformationally biased, agonist of human C5a(65-74) (EP67) was assessed for its adjuvant activities in vitro and in vivo. EP67 induced the release of the inflammatory (Th1) type cytokines from C5a receptor (CD88)-bearing antigen presenting cells (APC). EP67 did not induce the release of these cytokines from splenic APCs obtained from C5a receptor knockouts (CD88(-/-)). Serum from mice immunized with EP67-ovalbumin (OVA) contained high OVA-specific antibody (Ab) titers [IgG1, IgG2a (IGg2c), IgG2b]. Mice receiving OVA alone produced only IgG1 Abs, indicating the ability of EP67 to induce a Th1-like Ab class switch. Spleen cell cultures from wild type mice but not CD88(-/-) mice showed an enhanced OVA-specific proliferative response in vitro. These results indicate the ability of EP67 to drive a Th1-mediated immune response and its potential use as a unique adjuvant."},"19879346":{"title":"CAF01 liposomes as a mucosal vaccine adjuvant: In vitro and in vivo investigations.","abstract":"Mucosal administration of vaccines has many advantages compared to parenteral vaccination. Needle-free mucosal vaccination would be easily applicable, target the vaccine to the entry point of many pathogens, and reduce the risk of infection with other pathogens during vaccination as compared to invasive methods. CAF01 is a novel liposome-based vaccine adjuvant with remarkable immunostimulatory activity. The potential of CAF01 liposomes as adjuvant for mucosal vaccines was investigated using the Calu-3 epithelial cell culture in vitro model. Thus, the mucosal permeability of the antigen as well as the epithelial integrity and the metabolic activity of the well-differentiated cells were investigated after exposure to CAF01. Finally, the adjuvant was tested for nasal administration in mice, combined with an influenza vaccine. The results suggest that CAF01 enhanced transport of antigen through the mucus layer on Calu-3 cells, increasing the concentration of antigen in the cell layer, as well as the transport across the epithelial cells. Furthermore CAF01 was well tolerated by the Calu-3 cells and the in vivo studies demonstrated increased cell-mediated immunity (CMI) as well as humoral immune responses in mice after nasal application of the influenza vaccine when combined with CAF01. CAF01 is thus a promising adjuvant for mucosal delivery."},"19897067":{"title":"Toward the development of a stable, freeze-dried formulation of Helicobacter pylori killed whole cell vaccine adjuvanted with a novel mutant of Escherichia coli heat-labile toxin.","abstract":"No vaccine exists for the prevention of infection with the ubiquitous gastric pathogen Helicobacter pylori, and drug therapy for the infection is complicated by poor patient compliance, the high cost of treatment, and ineffectiveness against drug-resistant strains. A new medical advancement is required to reduce the incidence of peptic ulcer disease and stomach cancer, two conditions caused by infection with H. pylori. Clinical trials have been performed with a formalin-inactivated H. pylori whole cell (HWC) vaccine, given orally in combination with the mucosal adjuvant mLT(R192G), a mutant of Escherichia coli heat-labile toxin. Following the initial dose of this vaccine, some subjects experienced gastrointestinal side effects. To reduce side effects and potentially further increase the amount of adjuvant that can safely be administered with the HWC vaccine, experiments were performed with a form of LT that carried two mutations in the A subunit, a substitution of G for R at position 192, and A for L at position 211. The double mutant LT (dmLT) adjuvant stimulated immune responses as effectively as the single mutant LT in mice. Additionally, following a challenge infection, the dmLT-adjuvanted vaccine was as effective as single mutant LT in reducing gastric urease levels (diagnostic for H. pylori infection), and H. pylori colonization in the stomach as assessed by quantitative analysis of stomach homogenates. A lyophilized formulation of HWC was developed to improve stability and to potentially reduce reliance on cold chain maintenance. It was observed that a dmLT-adjuvanted lyophilized vaccine was equally as protective in the mouse model as the liquid formulation as assessed by gastric urease analysis and analysis of stomach homogenates for viable H. pylori. No readily detectable effect of tonicity or moisture content was observed for the lyophilized vaccine within the formulation limits evaluated. In an accelerated stability study performed at 37 degrees C the lyophilized vaccine remained equally as protective as vaccine stored at 2-8 degrees C. The formulation selected for clinical development consisted of 2.5 x 10(10) formalin-inactivated cells per ml in 6.5% trehalose, 0.5% mannitol, and 10mM citrate buffer at pH 6.8."},"19950168":{"title":"Marked enhancement of antigen-specific T-cell responses by IL-7-fused nonlytic, but not lytic, Fc as a genetic adjuvant.","abstract":"IL-7 plays a crucial role in the homeostatic proliferation, differentiation and survival of T cells, as well as in the survival and proliferation of precursor B cells. Here, we demonstrated that utilizing nonlytic Fc-fused IL-7 (IL-7-Fc(m)) as a genetic adjuvant significantly enhanced not only CD4(+) but also CD8(+) T-cell responses by E7 DNA immunization, in addition to improving protection against TC-1-induced tumors in comparison to IL-7 alone. Similar results were obtained in OT-1 adoptive transfer experiments with OVA DNA injection, suggesting independence from antigenic nature and experimental conditions. In particular, the increased frequency of CD8(+) T cells was mainly due to enhanced T-cell proliferation in T-cell priming, and not to decreased cellular apoptosis. Interestingly, the enhanced adjuvant effect was not seen in the co-delivery of lytic Fc-fused IL-7 (IL-7-Fc) which increases T-cell apoptosis as well as T-cell proliferation, suggesting that the T-cell proliferative effect may be neutralized by T-cell apoptosis. Thus, our findings suggest that nonlytic Fc, in contrast to lytic Fc, fusion to cytokines may provide an insight in designing a potent genetic adjuvant for inducing CD4(+) and CD8(+) T-cell responses."},"20068111":{"title":"Phase I study of recombinant human interleukin-7 administration in subjects with refractory malignancy.","abstract":"Interleukin-7 (IL-7) has critical and nonredundant roles in T-cell development, hematopoiesis, and postdevelopmental immune functions as a prototypic homeostatic cytokine. Based on a large body of preclinical evidence, it may have multiple therapeutic applications in immunodeficiency states, either physiologic (immunosenescence), pathologic (HIV), or iatrogenic (postchemotherapy and posthematopoietic stem cell transplant), and may have roles in immune reconstitution or enhancement of immunotherapy. We report here on the toxicity and biological activity of recombinant human IL-7 (rhIL-7) in humans. Subjects with incurable malignancy received rhIL-7 subcutaneously every other day for 2 weeks in a phase I interpatient dose escalation study (3, 10, 30, and 60 microg/kg/dose). The objectives were safety and dose-limiting toxicity determination, identification of a range of biologically active doses, and characterization of biological and, possibly, antitumor effects. Mild to moderate constitutional symptoms, reversible spleen and lymph node enlargement, and marked increase in peripheral CD3(+), CD4(+), and CD8(+) lymphocytes were seen in a dose-dependent and age-independent manner in all subjects receiving >or=10 microg/kg/dose, resulting in a rejuvenated circulating T-cell profile, resembling that seen earlier in life. In some subjects, rhIL-7 induced in the bone marrow a marked, transient polyclonal proliferation of pre-B cells showing a spectrum of maturation as well as an increase in circulating transitional B cells. This study shows the potent biological activity of rhIL-7 in humans over a well-tolerated dose range and allows further exploration of its possible therapeutic applications."},"20130134":{"title":"An inactivated Vero cell-grown Japanese encephalitis vaccine formulated with Advax, a novel inulin-based adjuvant, induces protective neutralizing antibody against homologous and heterologous flaviviruses.","abstract":"Advax is a polysaccharide-based adjuvant that potently stimulates vaccine immunogenicity without the increased reactogenicity seen with other adjuvants. This study investigated the immunogenicity of a novel Advax-adjuvanted Vero cell culture candidate vaccine against Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) in mice and horses. The results showed that, in mice, a two-immunization, low-dose (50 ng JEV antigen) regimen with adjuvanted vaccine produced solid neutralizing immunity comparable to that elicited with live ChimeriVax-JE immunization and superior to that elicited with tenfold higher doses of a traditional non-adjuvanted JEV vaccine (JE-VAX; Biken Institute) or a newly approved alum-adjuvanted vaccine (Jespect; Novartis). Mice vaccinated with the Advax-adjuvanted, but not the unadjuvanted vaccine, were protected against live JEV challenge. Equine immunizations against JEV with Advax-formulated vaccine similarly showed enhanced vaccine immunogenicity, confirming that the adjuvant effects of Advax are not restricted to rodent models. Advax-adjuvanted JEV vaccine elicited a balanced T-helper 1 (Th1)/Th2 immune response against JEV with protective levels of cross-neutralizing antibody against other viruses belonging to the JEV serocomplex, including Murray Valley encephalitis virus (MVEV). The adjuvanted JEV vaccine was well tolerated with minimal reactogenicity and no systemic toxicity in immunized animals. The cessation of manufacture of traditional mouse brain-derived unadjuvanted JEV vaccine in Japan has resulted in a JEV vaccine shortage internationally. There is also an ongoing lack of human vaccines against other JEV serocomplex flaviviruses, such as MVEV, making this adjuvanted, cell culture-grown JEV vaccine a promising candidate to address both needs with one vaccine."},"20157605":{"title":"Enhancement of DNA Vaccine-induced Immune Responses by Influenza Virus NP Gene.","abstract":"DNA immunization induces B and T cell responses to various pathogens and tumors. However, these responses are known to be relatively weak and often transient. Thus, novel strategies are necessary for enhancing immune responses induced by DNA immunization. Here, we demonstrated that co-immunization of influenza virus nucleoprotein (NP) gene significantly enhances humoral and cell-mediated responses to codelivered antigens in mice. We also found that NP DNA coimmunization augments in vivo proliferation of adoptively transferred antigen-specific CD4 and CD8 T cells, which enhanced protective immunity against tumor challenge. Our results suggest that NP DNA can serve as a novel genetic adjuvant in cocktail DNA vaccination."},"20193791":{"title":"AF03-adjuvanted and non-adjuvanted pandemic influenza A (H1N1) 2009 vaccines induce strong antibody responses in seasonal influenza vaccine-primed and unprimed mice.","abstract":"Pandemic influenza vaccines have been manufactured using the A/California/07/2009 (H1N1) strain as recommended by the World Health Organization. We evaluated in mice the immunogenicity of pandemic (H1N1) 2009 vaccine and the impact of prior vaccination against seasonal trivalent influenza vaccines (TIV) on antibody responses against pandemic (H1N1) 2009. In naïve mice, a single dose of unadjuvanted H1N1 vaccine (3 microg of HA) was shown to elicit hemagglutination inhibition (HI) antibody titers >40, a titer associated with protection in humans against seasonal influenza. A second vaccine dose of pandemic (H1N1) 2009 vaccine strongly increased these titers, which were consistently higher in mice previously primed with TIV than in naïve mice. At a low immunization dose (0.3 microg of HA), the AF03-adjuvanted vaccine elicited higher HI antibody titers than the corresponding unadjuvanted vaccines in both naïve and TIV-primed animals, suggesting a potential for antigen dose-sparing. These results are in accordance with the use in humans of a split-virion inactivated pandemic (H1N1) 2009 vaccine formulated with or without AF03 adjuvant to protect children and young adults against influenza A (H1N1) 2009 infection."},"20233026":{"title":"CCL5 as an adjuvant for cancer immunotherapy.","abstract":"To date cancer immunotherapy has only achieved limited clinical efficacy, thus more efficient immunotherapeutic approaches need to be explored. The CC chemokine CCL5 plays a role in chemoattraction and activation of immune cells implying its potential clinical application as an adjuvant for boosting anti-tumor immunity, although an effect on carcinogenesis and tumor cell invasiveness is also reported to be associated with CCL5. Recent progress in exploiting CCL5 as an adjuvant for cancer prevention and treatment, and updated understanding on how CCL5 is involved in tumor invasiveness and carcinogenesis. CCL5 represents a natural adjuvant for enhancing anti-tumor immune responses. However, animal experiments and clinical reports suggest that CCL5 plays a role in carcinogenesis and invasiveness of tumor cells. Therefore, a CCL5-based cancer therapeutic approach needs to avoid the CCL5-associated potential detrimental effects. CCL5 has a pre-eminent role in chemotaxis and activation of a wide spectrum of immune cells. CCL5 functions as an adjuvant to boost anti-tumor immunity by diverse protocols such as co-immunization of recombinant CCL5 protein with tumor-associated antigen, vaccination with CCL-5-expressing tumor cells, or viral vector delivery of CCL5 cDNA into growing tumor. CCL5 may also promote tumor cell survival, proliferation and invasion by different mechanisms."},"20420712":{"title":"CCL3 and CCL20-recruited dendritic cells modified by melanoma antigen gene-1 induce anti-tumor immunity against gastric cancer ex vivo and in vivo.","abstract":"To investigate whether dendritic cell (DC) precursors, recruited by injection of chemokine ligand 3 (CCL3) and CCL20, induce anti-tumor immunity against gastric cancer induced by a DC vaccine expressing melanoma antigen gene-1 (MAGE-1) ex vivo and in vivo. B6 mice were injected with CCL3 and CCL20 via the tail vein. Freshly isolated F4/80-B220-CD11c+ cells cultured with cytokines were analyzed by phenotype analysis and mixed lymphocyte reaction (MLR). For adenoviral (Ad)-mediated gene transduction, cultured F4/80-B220-CD11c+ cells were incubated with Ad-MAGE-1. Vaccination of stimulated DC induced T lymphocytes. The killing effect of these T cells against gastric carcinoma cells was assayed by MTT. INF-gamma production was determined with an INF-gamma ELISA kit. In the solid tumor and metastases model, DC-based vaccines were used for immunization after challenge with MFC cells. Tumor size, survival of mice, and number of pulmonary metastatic foci were used to assess the therapeutic effect of DC vaccines. F4/80-B220-CD11c+ cell numbers increased after CCL3 and CCL20 injection. Freshly isolated F4/80-B220-CD11c+ cells cultured with cytokines were phenotyically identical to typical DC and gained the capacity to stimulate allogeneic T cells. These DCs were transduced with Ad-MAGE-1, which were prepared for DC vaccines expressing tumor antigen. T lymphocytes stimulated by DCs transduced with Ad-MAGE-1 exhibited specific killing effects on gastric carcinoma cells and produced high levels of INF-gamma ex vivo. In vivo, tumor sizes of the experimental group were much smaller than both the positive control group and the negative control groups (P < 0.05). Kaplan-Meier survival curves showed that survival of the experimental group mice was significantly longer than the control groups (P < 0.05). In addition, MAGE-1-transduced DCs were also a therapeutic benefit on an established metastatic tumor, resulting in a tremendous decrease in the number of pulmonary metastatic foci. CCL3 and CCL20-recruited DCs modified by adenovirus-trasnsduced, tumor-associated antigen, MAGE-1, can stimulate anti-tumor immunity specific to gastric cancer ex vivo and in vivo. This system may prove to be an efficient strategy for anti-tumor immunotherapy."},"2042393":{"title":"Vitamin E adjuvant formulations in mice.","abstract":"Water-in-oil-type adjuvants prepared with natural or synthetic vitamin E as the oil phase, Arlacel A or Montanide 103 as emulsifier and 1.0% aqueous solution of bovine serum albumin (BSA) as antigen were tested in mice. An emulsion of 0.42 ml vitamin E, 0.42 ml special mineral oil, 0.15 ml Arlacel A and 1.0 ml BSA gave maximal humoral response, but 0.85 ml special mineral oil, 0.15 ml Arlacel A and 1.0 ml BSA (standard Freund's incomplete adjuvant formulation) gave the greatest delayed-type hypersensitivity response."},"20466439":{"title":"The Toll-like receptor adaptor molecule TRIF enhances DNA vaccination against classical swine fever.","abstract":"To evaluate the effects of the Toll/interleukin-1 receptor domain-containing adaptor-inducing interferon-beta (TRIF) on immune responses induced by DNA vaccines, mice were immunized with the eukaryotic expression plasmid pcDNA/E2 encoding classical swine fever virus (CSFV) E2 alone or in combination with the TRIF genetic adjuvant. Immune responses were examined in immunized mice. Our data demonstrates that co-delivery of the DNA vaccine pcDNA/E2 with the TRIF adjuvant augmented specific humoral and cellular immune responses in a mouse model. Vaccination of pigs confirmed that the pcDNA/E2 in combination with TRIF conferred total protection against lethal challenge with highly virulent CSFV. We conclude that TRIF enhances the effects of the DNA vaccine against CSFV infection and could be used as a potential genetic adjuvant for DNA vaccines in large animal species."},"20484507":{"title":"HIV-1 protease has a genetic T-cell adjuvant effect which is negatively regulated by proteolytic activity.","abstract":"HIV protease (PR) mediates the processing of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) polyproteins and is necessary for the viral production. Recently, HIV PR was shown to possess both cytotoxic and chaperone like activity. We demonstrate here that HIV PR can serve as a genetic adjuvant that enhances the HIV Env and human papillomavirus (HPV) DNA vaccine-induced T-cell response in a dose-dependent manner, only when codelivered with DNA vaccine. Interestingly, the T-cell adjuvant effects of HIV PR were increased by introducing several mutations that inhibited its proteolytic activity, indicating that the adjuvant properties were inversely correlated with its proteolytic activity. Conversely, the introduction of a mutation in the flap region of HIV PR limiting the access to the core domain of HIV PR inhibited the T-cell adjuvant effect, suggesting that the HIV PR chaperone like activity may play a role in mediating T-cell adjuvant properties. A similar adjuvant effect was also observed in adenovirus vaccine, indicating vaccine type independency. These findings suggest that HIV PR can modulate T-cell responses elicited by a gene-based vaccine positively by inherent chaperone like activity and negatively by its proteolytic activity."},"20488726":{"title":"Adjuvants for cancer vaccines.","abstract":"The recent FDA approval of sipuleucel-T (Provenge), a patient-specific immunotherapy for androgen-independent prostate cancer developed by Dendreon Corporation, has provided support for the concept of cellular immunotherapy as an approach to cancer treatment. Adjuvants are compounds that enhance the potency of the antigen-specific immune response and can be an essential component of an efficacious vaccine. Cervarix is a prophylactic vaccine against human papilloma virus (HPV) types 16 and 18, which can cause cervical cancer, and recently received approval from the FDA, due in part to the protective immunity it conferred against not only HPV types contained in the vaccine but in addition to oncogenic HPV strains that were not contained in the vaccine. Cervarix is formulated with MPL (monophosphoryl lipid A), a TLR-4 targeted adjuvant shown to promote immune response broadening. The recent FDA approvals of these pioneering vaccines are landmark events, and will likely usher in renewed interest and investment in the development of new therapeutic cancer vaccine candidates. In this review, we examine new molecularly defined adjuvants and formulations and its application to cancer vaccines under development."},"20497569":{"title":"Development of avian influenza virus H5 DNA vaccine and MDP-1 gene of Mycobacterium bovis as genetic adjuvant.","abstract":"Studies have shown that DNA vaccines can induce protective immunity, which demonstrated the high potential of DNA vaccines as an alternative to inactivated vaccines. Vaccines are frequently formulated with adjuvants to improve their release, delivery and presentation to the host immune system. The H5 gene of H5N1 virus (A/Ck/Malaysia/5858/04) was cloned separately into pcDNA3.1 + vector. The immunogenicity of the cloned H5 DNA vaccine was tested on SPF chickens using two different approaches. First approach was using H5 DNA vaccine (pcDNA3.1/H5) and the second was using H5 DNA vaccine in addition to the pcDNA3.1/MDP1 vaccine. Ten days old chickens inoculated three times with two weeks intervals. The spleen and muscle samples from chickens immunized with H5 (pcDNA3.1/H5) and H5 + MDP1 (pcDNA3.1/H5 + pcDNA3.1/MDP1) vaccines were collected after sacrificing the chickens and successfully expressed H5 and MDP1 RNA transcripts. The sera of immunized chickens were collected prior to first immunization and every week after immunization; and analyzed using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and hemagglutination inhibition (HI) test. Results of competitive ELISA showed successful antibody responses two weeks post immunization. The HI test showed an increased in antibody titers during the course of experiment in group immunized with H5 and H5 + MDP1 vaccines. The result showed that the constructed DNA vaccines were able to produce detectable antibody titer in which the group immunized with H5 + MDP1 vaccine produced higher antibody comparing to H5 vaccine alone. This study shows for the first time the usefulness of MDP1 as a genetic adjuvant for H5 DNA vaccine."},"20505822":{"title":"Protection against Chlamydia promoted by a subunit vaccine (CTH1) compared with a primary intranasal infection in a mouse genital challenge model.","abstract":"The chlamydial proteins CT443 (OmcB) and CT521 (rl16) have previously been identified as human B and/or T cell targets during a chlamydial infection in humans. Here we compare the protective effector mechanism promoted by a fusion protein composed of CT521 and CT443 (CTH1) with a primary intranasal Chlamydia muridarum infection known to provide high levels of protection against a genital chlamydial challenge. The fusion protein CTH1, adjuvanted with a strong Th1 inducing cationic adjuvant (CAF01), significantly reduced the bacterial shedding compared to a control group in both a C. trachomatis Serovar D and C. muridarum challenge model. The CTH1/CAF01 vaccine was found to induce polyfunctional T cells consisting of TNFalpha/IL-2 and TNFalpha/IL-2/IFN-gamma positive cells and high titers of CTH1 specific IgG2a and IgG1. By depletion experiments the protection in the C. muridarum challenge model was demonstrated to be mediated solely by CD4(+) T cells. In comparison, an intranasal infection with C. muridarum induced a T cell response that consisted predominantly of TNFalpha/IFN-gamma co-expressing effector CD4(+) T cells and an antibody response consisting of C. muridarum specific IgG1, IgG2a but also IgA. This response was associated with a high level of protection against challenge-a protection that was only partially dependent on CD4(+) T cells. Furthermore, whereas the antibody response induced by intranasal infection was strongly reactive against the native antigens displayed in the chlamydial elementary body, only low levels of antibodies against this preparation were found after CTH1/CAF01 immunization. Our data demonstrate that CTH1 vaccination promotes a CD4(+) T cell dependent protective response but compared with intranasal C. muridarum infection lacks a CD4 independent protective mechanism for complete protection."},"20538850":{"title":"An adjuvant for the induction of potent, protective humoral responses to an H5N1 influenza virus vaccine with antigen-sparing effect in mice.","abstract":"Intramuscular administration of inactivated influenza virus vaccine is the main vaccine platform used for the prevention of seasonal influenza virus infection. In clinical trials, inactivated H5N1 vaccines have been shown to be safe and capable of eliciting immune correlates of protection. However, the H5N1 vaccines are poorly immunogenic compared to seasonal influenza virus vaccines. Needle-free vaccination would be more efficient and economical in a pandemic, and the development of an effective and safe mucosal adjuvant will be an important milestone. A stabilized chemical analog of double-stranded RNA, PIKA, was previously reported to be a potent mucosal adjuvant in a murine model. While PIKA stimulates dendritic cells in vitro, little was known about its receptor and adjuvanting mechanism in vivo. In this study, we demonstrated that the immunostimulatory effect of PIKA resulted in an increased number of mature antigen-presenting cells, with the induction of proinflammatory cytokines at the inoculation site. In addition, coadministration of PIKA with a poorly immunogenic H5N1 subunit vaccine led to antigen sparing and quantitative and qualitative improvements of the immune responses over those achieved with an unadjuvanted vaccine in mice. The adjuvanted vaccine provided protection against lethal challenge with homologous and heterologous H5N1 wild-type viruses. Mice lacking functional TLR3 showed diminished cytokine production with PIKA stimulation, diminished antibody responses, and reduced protective efficacy against wild-type virus challenge following vaccination. These data suggest that TLR3 is important for the optimal performance of PIKA as an adjuvant. With its good safety profile and antigen-sparing effect, PIKA could be an attractive adjuvant for use in future pandemics."},"20656945":{"title":"Chitin particles are multifaceted immune adjuvants.","abstract":"Chitin is a ubiquitous polysaccharide in fungi, insects, allergens, and parasites that is released at sites of infection. Its role in the generation of tissue inflammation, however, is not fully understood. We hypothesized that chitin is an important adjuvant for adaptive immunity. Mice were injected with a solution of ovalbumin and chitin. We used in vivo and ex vivo/in vitro approaches to characterize the ability of chitin fragments to foster adaptive immune responses against ovalbumin and compared these responses to those induced by aluminum hydroxide (alum). In vivo, ovalbumin challenge caused an eosinophil-rich pulmonary inflammatory response, Th2 cytokine elaboration, IgE induction, and mucus metaplasia in mice that had been sensitized with ovalbumin plus chitin or ovalbumin plus alum. Toll-like receptor-2, MyD88, and IL-17A played critical roles in the chitin-induced responses, and MyD88 and IL-17A played critical roles in the alum-induced responses. In vitro, CD4(+) T cells from mice sensitized with ovalbumin plus chitin were incubated with ovalbumin-stimulated bone marrow-derived dendritic cells. In these experiments, CD4(+) T-cell proliferation, IL-5, IL-13, IFN-γ, and IL-17A production were appreciated. Toll-like receptor-2, MyD88, and IL-17A played critical roles in these in vitro adjuvant properties of chitin. TLR-2 was required for cell proliferation, whereas IL-17 and TLR-2 were required for cytokine elaboration. IL-17A also inhibited the generation of adaptive Th1 responses. These studies demonstrate that chitin is a potent multifaceted adjuvant that induces adaptive Th2, Th1, and Th17 immune responses. They also demonstrate that the adjuvant properties of chitin are mediated by a pathway(s) that involves and is regulated by TLR-2, MyD88, and IL-17A."},"20708999":{"title":"IRX-2 increases the T cell-specific immune response to protein/peptide vaccines.","abstract":"Therapeutic cancer vaccines are attractive due to the prospect of specificity and their lack of toxicity; however, their clinical development has been hampered by several biologic and clinical challenges. One of the most important biologic challenges is the relative lack of effective cellular immune adjuvants. Effective physiologic immune responses are characterized by the local generation of a complex cytokine environment that activates and regulates multiple immune cell types. IRX-2 is a primary cell-derived biologic with physiological levels of multiple active cytokine components, produced under pharmaceutical standards. The hypothesis that IRX-2 amplifies the T cell response to defined antigens was assessed in mice by measuring the T cell-specific peptide response to a dominant mouse peptide (NFT) derived from human prostate-specific membrane antigen (PSMA). IRX-2 enhances the T cell response to NFT when antigens were delivered either via irradiated cells expressing human PSMA, NFT peptide in Incomplete Freund's adjuvant (IFA) or NFT peptide conjugated to KLH. The T cell-specific activity was measured in spleen or lymph nodes cells by IFN-γ ELISpot and/or IFN-γ secretion over 6 days or in vivo by peptide-specific delayed-type hypersensitivity reaction (DTH). Further more, a single administration of IRX-2 with the antigen was not active as compared to 4 or 9 additional administrations which were sufficient to enhance the T cell response to antigens. The influence of IRX-2 on the B cell response to ovalbumin when it was used as a carrier protein was measured by ELISA. IRX-2 was compared to a commercially available combination adjuvant (MPL+TDM in squalene/Tween 80) which based on the literature is a potent adjuvant in murine systems. In the T cell assay IRX-2 was superior to the commercially available combination adjuvant and while IRX-2 also increased antibody titer, it was not as potent as the combination adjuvant. Mice immunized with IRX-2 and antigen also exhibited delayed tumor progression following challenge with PSMA-expressing tumor cells. These studies demonstrate that IRX-2 is an immunomodulator with adjuvant activity which preferentially enhances the T cell-specific responses to tumor associated antigens. Based on these studies, IRX-2 is a candidate for evaluation as a T cell adjuvant in a variety of preclinical vaccine delivery systems as well as in human clinical trials with cancer vaccine candidates."},"20944089":{"title":"A defined tuberculosis vaccine candidate boosts BCG and protects against multidrug-resistant Mycobacterium tuberculosis.","abstract":"Despite the widespread use of the childhood vaccine against tuberculosis (TB), Mycobacterium bovis bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG), the disease remains a serious global health problem. A successful vaccine against TB that replaces or boosts BCG would include antigens that induce or recall the appropriate T cell responses. Four Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) antigens--including members of the virulence factor families PE/PPE and EsX or antigens associated with latency--were produced as a single recombinant fusion protein (ID93). When administered together with the adjuvant GLA-SE, a stable oil-in-water nanoemulsion, the fusion protein was immunogenic in mice, guinea pigs, and cynomolgus monkeys. In mice, this fusion protein-adjuvant combination induced polyfunctional CD4 T helper 1 cell responses characterized by antigen-specific interferon-γ, tumor necrosis factor, and interleukin-2, as well as a reduction in the number of bacteria in the lungs of animals after they were subsequently infected with virulent or multidrug-resistant Mtb strains. Furthermore, boosting BCG-vaccinated guinea pigs with fusion peptide-adjuvant resulted in reduced pathology and fewer bacilli, and prevented the death of animals challenged with virulent Mtb. Finally, the fusion protein elicited polyfunctional effector CD4 and CD8 T cell responses in BCG-vaccinated or Mtb-exposed human peripheral blood mononuclear cells. This study establishes that the protein subunit vaccine consisting of the fusion protein and adjuvant protects against TB and drug-resistant TB in animals and is a candidate for boosting the protective efficacy of the childhood BCG vaccine in humans."},"20965299":{"title":"A novel adjuvant for vaccine development in the aged.","abstract":"A conformationally-biased, response-selective agonist of human C5a(65-74) (EP67) activated antigen presenting cells (APC) from aged C57Bl/6 mice in vitro and the generation of antigen (Ag)-specific antibody (Ab) responses in aged mice in vivo. EP67, induced the release of the pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-6, TNFα, and INFγ from splenic APCs obtained from both aged and young mice. Both aged and young mice produced high Ag-specific IgG Ab titers when immunized with EP67-containing vaccines to ovalbumin (OVA-EP67) and to a protein (rPrp1) from the cell wall of Coccidioides (rPrp1-EP67). Immunization with EP67-containing vaccines resulted in higher IgG titers in both young and aged mice compared to mice immunized with OVA adsorbed to alum (OVA/alum) and Prp1 admixed with CpG (rPrp1 +CpG). Aged and young mice immunized with the EP67-containing vaccines generated higher titers of IgG1 and IgG2b relative to their aged-matched counterparts immunized with OVA/alum or Prp1 +CpG. These results indicate that EP67 induces humoral immunity in aged mice not obtainable with alum and CpG. These results support the use of EP67 as a potential vaccine adjuvant suited to the elderly."},"21042837":{"title":"Incorporation of the TLR4 agonist monophosphoryl lipid A into the bilayer of DDA/TDB liposomes: physico-chemical characterization and induction of CD8+ T-cell responses in vivo.","abstract":"The combination of delivery systems like cationic liposomes and immunopotentiators such as Toll-like receptor (TLR) ligands is a promising approach for rational vaccine adjuvant design. The purpose of this study was to investigate how the incorporation of the poorly soluble TLR4 agonist monophosphoryl lipid A (MPL) into cationic liposomes based on dimethyldioctadecylammonium (DDA) and trehalose 6,6'-dibehenate (TDB) influenced the physicochemical and immunological properties of the liposomes. The DDA/TDB/MPL liposomes were characterized with regard to particle size, poly dispersity, surface charge, stability and thermodynamic properties. The adjuvant formulations were tested in vivo in mice using ovalbumin (OVA) as model antigen. Integration of MPL into the bilayer structure of DDA/TDB liposomes was evident from a decreased phase transition temperature, an improved membrane packing, and a reduction in surface charge. The particle size and favorable liposome storage stability were not affected by MPL. In mice, DDA/TDB/MPL liposomes induced an antigen-specific CD8(+) T-cell response and a humoral response. Enhancing the solubility of MPL by inclusion into the bilayer of DDA/TDB liposomes changes the membrane characteristics of the adjuvant system and provides the liposomes with CD8(+) T-cell inducing properties without compromising humoral responses."},"21048152":{"title":"Flagellin as an adjuvant: cellular mechanisms and potential.","abstract":"Flagellin is a potent activator of a broad range of cell types involved in innate and adaptive immunity. An increasing number of studies have demonstrated the effectiveness of flagellin as an adjuvant, as well as its ability to promote cytokine production by a range of innate cell types, trigger a generalized recruitment of T and B lymphocytes to secondary lymphoid sites, and activate TLR5(+)CD11c(+) cells and T lymphocytes in a manner that is distinct from cognate Ag recognition. The plasticity of flagellin has allowed for the generation of a range of flagellin-Ag fusion proteins that have proven to be effective vaccines in animal models. This review summarizes the state of our current understanding of the adjuvant effect of flagellin and addresses important areas of current and future research interest."},"21051561":{"title":"The multifaceted granulysin.","abstract":"Granulysin is a cytolytic and proinflammatory peptide contained in the cytotoxic granules of NK cells and CTL. Unexpectedly, granulysin also recruits and activates dendritic cells via TLR4/Myd88, playing the role of an immune adjuvant. Hence, in contrast to classical alarmins released by early leukocytes, granulysin is the first alarmin to be released from lymphocytes."},"21060869":{"title":"A synthetic adjuvant to enhance and expand immune responses to influenza vaccines.","abstract":"Safe, effective adjuvants that enhance vaccine potency, including induction of neutralizing Abs against a broad range of variant strains, is an important strategy for the development of seasonal influenza vaccines which can provide optimal protection, even during seasons when available vaccines are not well matched to circulating viruses. We investigated the safety and ability of Glucopyranosyl Lipid Adjuvant-Stable Emulsion (GLA-SE), a synthetic Toll-like receptor (TLR)4 agonist formulation, to adjuvant Fluzone® in mice and non-human primates. The GLA-SE adjuvanted Fluzone vaccine caused no adverse reactions, increased the induction of T helper type 1 (T(H)1)-biased cytokines such as IFNγ, TNF and IL-2, and broadened serological responses against drifted A/H1N1 and A/H3N2 influenza variants. These results suggest that synthetic TLR4 adjuvants can enhance the magnitude and quality of protective immunity induced by influenza vaccines."},"21118032":{"title":"Vaxfectin: a versatile adjuvant for plasmid DNA- and protein-based vaccines.","abstract":"Many vaccines require the use of an adjuvant to achieve immunity. So far, few adjuvants have advanced successfully through clinical trials to become part of licensed vaccines. Vaxfectin® (Vical, CA, USA) represents a next-generation adjuvant with promise as a platform technology, showing utility with both plasmid DNA (pDNA) and protein-based vaccines. This review describes the chemical, physical, preclinical and clinical development of Vaxfectin for pDNA-based vaccines. Also included is the preclinical development of Vaxfectin-adjuvanted protein- and peptide-based vaccines. The reader will gain knowledge of vaccine adjuvant development from bench to bedside. Vaxfectin has effectively boosted the immune response against a range of pDNA-expressed pathogenic antigens in preclinical models extending from rodents to non-human primates. In the clinic, Vaxfectin-adjuvanted pDNA-based H5N1 influenza vaccines have been shown to be well tolerated and to result in durable immune responses within the predicted protective range reported for protein-based vaccines."},"21124731":{"title":"Syringe free vaccination with CAF01 Adjuvated Ag85B-ESAT-6 in Bioneedles provides strong and prolonged protection against tuberculosis.","abstract":"Bioneedles are small hollow sugar based needles administered with a simple compressed air device. In the present study we investigate how incorporation of a subunit vaccine based on TB vaccine hybrid Ag85B-ESAT-6 adjuvated with CAF01 into Bioneedles affects its immunogenicity as well as its ability to protect against TB in a mouse model. The CMI response measured by IFN-γ and antigen specific CD4+ T-cells was, two weeks after the last vaccination, significantly lower in the group immunized with Bioneedle-incorporated vaccine compared to the conventional vaccine, using syringe and needle. However, at four, nine and 52 weeks after vaccination we observed similar high IFN-γ levels in the Bioneedle group and the group vaccinated using syringe and needle and comparable levels of antigen specific T-cells. Furthermore, the protective efficacy for the two vaccination methods was comparable and similar to BCG vaccination both six and 52 weeks after vaccination. These results therefore advocate the further development of the Bioneedle devises and applicators for the delivery of human vaccines."},"21135101":{"title":"Functional diversity of heat-labile toxins (LT) produced by enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli: differential enzymatic and immunological activities of LT1 (hLT) AND LT4 (pLT).","abstract":"Heat-labile toxins (LTs) have ADP-ribosylation activity and induce the secretory diarrhea caused by enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli (ETEC) strains in different mammalian hosts. LTs also act as adjuvants following delivery via mucosal, parenteral, or transcutaneous routes. Previously we have shown that LT produced by human-derived ETEC strains encompass a group of 16 polymorphic variants, including the reference toxin (LT1 or hLT) produced by the H10407 strain and one variant that is found mainly among bacterial strains isolated from pigs (LT4 or pLT). Herein, we show that LT4 (with six polymorphic sites in the A (K4R, K213E, and N238D) and B (S4T, A46E, and E102K) subunits) displays differential in vitro toxicity and in vivo adjuvant activities compared with LT1. One in vitro generated LT mutant (LTK4R), in which the lysine at position 4 of the A subunit was replaced by arginine, showed most of the LT4 features with an ∼10-fold reduction of the cytotonic effects, ADP-ribosylation activity, and accumulation of intracellular cAMP in Y1 cells. Molecular dynamic studies of the A subunit showed that the K4R replacement reduces the N-terminal region flexibility and decreases the catalytic site crevice. Noticeably, LT4 showed a stronger Th1-biased adjuvant activity with regard to LT1, particularly concerning activation of cytotoxic CD8(+) T lymphocytes when delivered via the intranasal route. Our results further emphasize the relevance of LT polymorphism among human-derived ETEC strains that may impact both the pathogenicity of the bacterial strain and the use of these toxins as potential vaccine adjuvants."},"21142803":{"title":"The CD4-like molecule LAG-3, biology and therapeutic applications.","abstract":"Promising immunotherapeutic agents targeting co-stimulatory pathways are currently being tested in clinical trials. One player in this array of regulatory pathways is the LAG-3/MHC class II axis. The lymphocyte activation gene-3 (LAG-3) is a negative co-stimulatory receptor that modulates T cell homeostasis, proliferation and activation. A recombinant soluble dimeric form of LAG-3 (sLAG-3-Ig, IMP321) shows adjuvant properties and enhances immunogenicity of tumor vaccines. Recent clinical trials produced encouraging results, especially when the human dimeric soluble form of LAG-3 (hLAG-3-Ig) was used in combination with chemotherapy. The biological relevance of LAG-3 in vivo. Pre-clinical data demonstrating adjuvant properties, as well as the improvement of tumor immunity by sLAG-3-Ig. Recent advances in the clinical development of the therapeutic reagent IMP321, hLAG-3-Ig, for cancer treatment. This review summarizes preclinical and clinical data on the biological functions of LAG-3. The LAG-3 inhibitory pathway is attracting attention, in the light of recent studies demonstrating its role in T cell unresponsiveness, and Treg function after chronic antigen stimulation. As a soluble recombinant dimer, the sLAG-3-Ig protein acts as an adjuvant for therapeutic induction of T cell responses, and may be beneficial to cancer patients when used in combination therapies."},"21147758":{"title":"Delta inulin: a novel, immunologically active, stable packing structure comprising β-D-[2 -> 1] poly(fructo-furanosyl) α-D-glucose polymers.","abstract":"We report a novel isoform of β-D-[2 → 1] poly(fructo-furanosyl) α-D-glucose termed delta inulin (DI), comparing it with previously described alpha (AI), beta (BI) and gamma (GI) isoforms. In vitro, DI is the most immunologically active weight/weight in human complement activation and in binding to monocytes and regulating their chemokine production and cell surface protein expression. In vivo, this translates into potent immune adjuvant activity, enhancing humoral and cellular responses against co-administered antigens. As a biocompatible polysaccharide particle, DI is safe and well tolerated by subcutaneous or intramuscular injection. Physico-chemically, DI forms as an insoluble precipitate from an aqueous solution of suitable AI, BI or GI held at 37-48°C, whereas the precipitate from the same solution at lower temperatures has the properties of AI or GI. DI can also be produced by heat conversion of GI suspensions at 56°C, whereas GI is converted from AI at 45°C. DI is distinguished from GI by its higher temperature of solution in dilute aqueous suspension and by its lower solubility in dimethyl sulfoxide, both consistent with greater hydrogen bonding in DI's polymer packing structure. DI suspensions can be dissolved by heat, re-precipitated by cooling as AI and finally re-converted back to DI by repeated heat treatment. Thus, DI, like the previously described inulin isoforms, reflects the formation of a distinct polymer aggregate packing structure via reversible noncovalent bonding. DI forms the basis for a potent new human vaccine adjuvant and further swells the growing family of carbohydrate structures with immunological activity."},"21157438":{"title":"DAI (DLM-1/ZBP1) as a genetic adjuvant for DNA vaccines that promotes effective antitumor CTL immunity.","abstract":"DNA vaccination is an attractive approach to induce antigen-specific cytotoxic CD8(+) T lymphocytes (CTLs), which can mediate protective antitumor immunity. The potency of DNA vaccines encoding weakly immunogenic tumor-associated antigens (TAAs) can be enhanced by codelivering gene-encoded adjuvants. Pattern recognition receptors (PRRs) that sense intracellular DNA could potentially be used to harness intrinsic immune-stimulating properties of plasmid DNA vaccines. Consequently, the cytosolic DNA sensor, DNA-dependent activator of interferon (IFN) regulatory factors (DAI), was used as a genetic adjuvant. In vivo electroporation (EP) of mice with a DAI-encoding plasmid (pDAI) promoted transcription of genes encoding type I IFNs, proinflammatory cytokines, and costimulatory molecules. Coimmunization with pDAI and antigen-encoding plasmids enhanced in vivo antigen-specific proliferation, and induction of effector and memory CTLs. Moreover, codelivery of pDAI effectively promoted CTL and CD4(+) Th1 responses to the TAA survivin. The DAI-enhanced CTL induction required nuclear factor κB (NF-κB) activation and type I IFN signaling, but did not involve the IFN regulatory factor 3 (IRF3). Codelivery of pDAI also increased CTL responses to the melanoma-associated antigen tyrosinase-related protein-2 (TRP2), enhanced tumor rejection and conferred long-term protection against B16 melanoma challenge. This study constitutes \"proof-of-principle\" validating the use of intracellular PRRs as genetic adjuvants to enhance DNA vaccine potency."},"21169215":{"title":"Induction of mucosal and systemic antibody and T-cell responses following prime-boost immunization with novel adjuvanted human immunodeficiency virus-1-vaccine formulations.","abstract":"As sexual transmission of human immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1) occurs via the mucosa, an ideal HIV-1 vaccine should induce both mucosal and systemic immunity. We therefore sought to evaluate the induction of mucosal responses using a DNA env prime-gp120 protein boost approach in which sequential nasal and parenteral protein administration was performed with two novel carbohydrate-based adjuvants. These adjuvants, Advax-M and Advax-P, were specifically designed for mucosal and systemic immune enhancement, respectively. Murine intranasal immunization with gp120/Advax-M adjuvant elicited gp120-specific IgA in serum and mucosal secretions that was markedly enhanced by DNA priming. Boosting of DNA-primed mice with gp120/Advax-M and gp120/Advax-P by sequential intranasal and intramuscular immunization, or vice versa, elicited persistent mucosal gp120-specific IgA, systemic IgG and memory T- and B-cell responses. Induction of homologous, but not heterologous, neutralizing activity was noted in the sera of all immunized groups. While confirmation of efficacy is required in challenge studies using non-human primates, these results suggest that the combination of DNA priming with sequential nasal and parenteral protein boosting, with appropriate mucosal and systemic adjuvants, could generate strong mucosal and systemic immunity and may block HIV-1 mucosal transmission and infection."},"21256188":{"title":"Adjuvant System AS03 containing α-tocopherol modulates innate immune response and leads to improved adaptive immunity.","abstract":"AS03 is an Adjuvant System (AS) containing α-tocopherol and squalene in an oil-in-water (o/w) emulsion. AS03 has been considered for the development of pandemic and seasonal influenza vaccines. Key features of AS03's mode of action were investigated in vivo in mice and ex vivo in human cells. AS03's adjuvant activity was superior to that of aluminium hydroxide and required the spatio-temporal co-localisation of AS03 with the antigen. This requirement coincided with AS03 triggering a transient production of cytokines at the injection site and in the draining lymph nodes (dLNs). The nature of the cytokines produced was consistent with the enhanced recruitment of granulocytes and of antigen-loaded monocytes in the dLNs. The presence of α-tocopherol in AS03 was required for AS03 to achieve the highest antibody response. The presence of α-tocopherol also modulated the expression of some cytokines, including CCL2, CCL3, IL-6, CSF3 and CXCL1; increased the antigen loading in monocytes; and increased the recruitment of granulocytes in the dLNs. Hence, AS03's promotion of monocytes as the principal antigen-presenting cells, and its effects on granulocytes and cytokines, may all contribute to enhancing the antigen-specific adaptive immune response."},"21276258":{"title":"Babassu aqueous extract (BAE) as an adjuvant for T helper (Th)1-dependent immune responses in mice of a Th2 immune response-prone strain.","abstract":"The aqueous extract of a Brazilian palm-tree fruit - the babassu - (BAE) exerts a clear immunostimulative activity in vivo. In the present work, the possibility that BAE can promote Th1 immune responses in mice of a Th2 immune response-prone strain - the BALB/c was investigated. BAE itself, and preparations consisting of Leishmania amazonensis promastigote extract (LE), adsorbed or not to Al(OH)3, and in the presence or not of BAE, were used as immunogens. LE and Al(OH)3 have been shown to preferentially elicit Th2 immune responses. The addition of BAE to LE-containing immunogenic preparations, adsorbed or not to Al(OH)3, clearly promoted the in vitro production of interferon γ (IFN-γ), a major Th1-dependent cytokine, and not of interleukin (IL-)4 (a Th2-dependent cytokine), by LE-stimulated splenocytes of immunized BALB/c mice. It also promoted the in vivo formation of IgG2a anti-LE antibodies. However, immunization with LE by itself led to an increased production of IL-4 by LE-stimulated splenocytes, and this production, albeit not enhanced, was not reduced by the addition of BAE to the immunogen. On the other hand, the IL-4 production by LE-stimulated splenocytes was significantly lower in mice immunized with a preparation containing Al(OH)3-adsorbed LE and BAE than in mice immunized with the control preparation of Al(OH)3-adsorbed LE without BAE. Moreover, an increased production of IFN-γ, and not of IL-4, was observed in the culture supernatants of splenocytes, from BAE-immunized mice, which were in vitro stimulated with BAE or which received no specific in vitro stimulus. No differences in IL-10 (an immunoregulatory cytokine) levels in the supernatants of splenocytes from mice that were injected with BAE, in relation to splenocytes from control mice, were observed. The spontaneous ex vivo production of NO by splenocytes of mice that had been injected with BAE was significantly higher than the production of NO by splenocytes of control mice. Based on the results described above, BAE, or biologically active molecules purified from it, should be further investigated as a possible adjuvant, in association or not with aluminium compounds, for the preferential induction of Th1-dependent immune responses against different antigens in distinct murine strains and animal species."},"21288994":{"title":"Characterization of a mutant Escherichia coli heat-labile toxin, LT(R192G/L211A), as a safe and effective oral adjuvant.","abstract":"Despite the fact that the adjuvant properties of the heat-labile enterotoxins of Escherichia coli (LT) and Vibrio cholerae (CT) have been known for more than 20 years, there are no available oral vaccines containing these molecules as adjuvants, primarily because they are both very potent enterotoxins. A number of attempts with various degrees of success have been made to reduce or eliminate the enterotoxicity of LT and CT so they can safely be used as oral adjuvants or immunogens. In this report we characterize the structural, enzymatic, enterotoxic, and adjuvant properties of a novel mutant of LT, designated LT(R192G/L211A), or dmLT. dmLT was not sensitive to trypsin activation, had reduced enzymatic activity for induction of cyclic AMP in Caco-2 cells, and exhibited no enterotoxicity in the patent mouse assay. Importantly, dmLT retained the ability to function as an oral adjuvant for a coadministered antigen (tetanus toxoid) and to elicit anti-LT antibodies. In vitro and in vivo data suggest that the reduced enterotoxicity of this molecule compared to native LT or the single mutant, LT(R192G), is a consequence of increased sensitivity to proteolysis and rapid intracellular degradation in mammalian cells. In conclusion, dmLT is a safe and powerful detoxified enterotoxin with the potential to function as a mucosal adjuvant for coadministered antigens and to elicit anti-LT antibodies without undesirable side effects."},"21303708":{"title":"The virus-induced signaling adaptor molecule enhances DNA-raised immune protection against H5N1 influenza virus infection in mice.","abstract":"As an adaptor molecule in the retinoic acid-inducible gene-I (RIG-I) signaling pathway, the virus-induced signaling adaptor (VISA) molecule activates NF-κB and IRF3 and thereby leads to the production of type I interferons (IFNs). To explore the potential of VISA as a genetic adjuvant for DNA vaccines, a eukaryotic expression plasmid, pVISA, was generated by cloning the VISA gene into the pVAX1vector. For comparison, the pTRIF plasmid was similarly constructed, encoding the known genetic adjuvant TRIF (TIR-domain-containing adapter-inducing interferon-β), an adapter in the Toll-like receptor (TLR) signaling pathway. Mice were immunized with the chimeric DNA vaccine pHA/NP(147-155), which encodes the HA (hemagglutinin) fused with NP (nucleoprotein) CTL epitope (NP(147-155)) of H5N1 influenza virus, either alone or in combination with pVISA or pTRIF. Antigen-specific immune responses were examined in immunized mice. Our results demonstrate that co-immunization of the pHA/NP(147-155) plasmid with the VISA adjuvant augmented DNA-raised cellular immune responses and provided protection against H5N1 influenza virus challenge in mice. In addition, our data suggest that VISA acts as a stronger adjuvant for DNA immunization than TRIF. We conclude that co-inoculation with a vector expressing the adaptor molecule VISA enhanced the protective immunity against H5N1 infection induced by pHA/NP(147-155) and that VISA could be developed as a novel genetic adjuvant for DNA vaccines."},"21307853":{"title":"Co-adjuvant effects of retinoic acid and IL-15 induce inflammatory immunity to dietary antigens.","abstract":"Under physiological conditions the gut-associated lymphoid tissues not only prevent the induction of a local inflammatory immune response, but also induce systemic tolerance to fed antigens. A notable exception is coeliac disease, where genetically susceptible individuals expressing human leukocyte antigen (HLA) HLA-DQ2 or HLA-DQ8 molecules develop inflammatory T-cell and antibody responses against dietary gluten, a protein present in wheat. The mechanisms underlying this dysregulated mucosal immune response to a soluble antigen have not been identified. Retinoic acid, a metabolite of vitamin A, has been shown to have a critical role in the induction of intestinal regulatory responses. Here we find in mice that in conjunction with IL-15, a cytokine greatly upregulated in the gut of coeliac disease patients, retinoic acid rapidly activates dendritic cells to induce JNK (also known as MAPK8) phosphorylation and release the proinflammatory cytokines IL-12p70 and IL-23. As a result, in a stressed intestinal environment, retinoic acid acted as an adjuvant that promoted rather than prevented inflammatory cellular and humoral responses to fed antigen. Altogether, these findings reveal an unexpected role for retinoic acid and IL-15 in the abrogation of tolerance to dietary antigens."},"21326197":{"title":"Transcutaneous immunization as preventative and therapeutic regimens to protect against experimental otitis media due to nontypeable Haemophilus influenzae.","abstract":"We have developed three nontypeable Haemophilus influenzae (NTHI) adhesin-derived immunogens that are significantly efficacious against experimental otitis media (OM) due to NTHI when delivered parenterally. We now expanded our preventative immunization strategies to include transcutaneous immunization (TCI) as a less invasive, but potentially equally efficacious, regimen to prevent OM due to NTHI. Additionally, we examined the potential of TCI as a therapeutic immunization regimen to resolve ongoing experimental OM. Preventative immunization with NTHI outer membrane protein (OMP) P5- and type IV pilus-targeted immunogens, delivered with the adjuvant LT(R192G-L211A), induced significantly earlier clearance of NTHI from the nasopharynges and middle ears of challenged chinchillas compared with receipt of immunogen or adjuvant alone. Moreover, therapeutic immunization resulted in significant resolution of established NTHI biofilms from the middle ear space of animals compared with controls. These data advocate TCI with the adhesin-directed immunogens as an efficacious regimen for prevention and resolution of experimental NTHI-induced OM."},"21368092":{"title":"Enhanced efficacy of therapeutic cancer vaccines produced by co-treatment with Mycobacterium tuberculosis heparin-binding hemagglutinin, a novel TLR4 agonist.","abstract":"Effective activation of dendritic cells (DCs) toward T helper (Th)-1 cell polarization would improve DC-based antitumor immunotherapy, helping promote the development of immunotherapeutic vaccines based on T-cell immunity. To achieve this goal, it is essential to develop effective immune adjuvants that can induce powerful Th1 cell immune responses. The pathogenic organism Mycobacterium tuberculosis includes certain constitutes, such as heparin-binding hemagglutinin (HBHA), that possess a strong immunostimulatory potential. In this study, we report the first clarification of the functions and precise mechanism of HBHA in immune stimulation settings relevant to cancer. HBHA induced DC maturation in a TLR4-dependent manner, elevating expression of the surface molecules CD40, CD80, and CD86, MHC classes I and II and the proinflammatory cytokines IL-6, IL-12, IL-1β, TNF-α, and CCR7, as well as stimulating the migratory capacity of DCs in vitro and in vivo. Mechanistic investigations established that MyD88 and TRIF signaling pathways downstream of TLR4 mediated secretion of HBHA-induced proinflammatory cytokines. HBHA-treated DCs activated naïve T cells, polarized CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells to secrete IFN-γ, and induced T-cell-mediated cytotoxicity. Notably, systemic administration of DCs that were HBHA-treated and OVA(251-264)-pulsed ex vivo greatly strengthened immune priming in vivo, inducing a dramatic regression of tumor growth associated with long-term survival in a murine E.G7 thymoma model. Together, our findings highlight HBHA as an immune adjuvant that favors Th1 polarization and DC function for potential applications in DC-based antitumor immunotherapy."},"21387108":{"title":"Nitric oxide short-circuits interleukin-12-mediated tumor regression.","abstract":"Interleukin-12 (IL-12) can promote tumor regression via activation of multiple lymphocytic and myelocytic effectors. Whereas the cytotoxic mechanisms employed by T/NK/NKT cells in IL-12-mediated tumor kill are well defined, the antitumor role of macrophage-produced cytotoxic metabolites has been more controversial. To this end, we investigated the specific role of nitric oxide (NO), a major macrophage effector molecule, in post-IL-12 tumor regression. Analysis of tumors following a single intratumoral injection of slow-release IL-12 microspheres showed an IFNγ-dependent sevenfold increase in inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) expression within 48 h. Flow cytometric analysis of tumor-resident leukocytes and in vivo depletion studies identified CD11b(+) F4/80(+) Gr1(lo) macrophages as the primary source of iNOS. Blocking of post-therapy iNOS activity with N-nitro-L: -arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) dramatically enhanced tumor suppression revealing the inhibitory effect of NO on IL-12-driven antitumor immunity. Superior tumor regression in mice receiving combination treatment was associated with enhanced survival and proliferation of activated tumor-resident CD8+ T-effector/memory cells (Tem). These findings demonstrate that macrophage-produced NO negatively regulates the antitumor activity of IL-12 via its detrimental effects on CD8+ T cells and identify L-NAME as a potent adjuvant in IL-12 therapy of cancer."},"21447603":{"title":"Calcineurin subunit B activates dendritic cells and acts as a cancer vaccine adjuvant.","abstract":"Safe and potent adjuvants are required to establish effective vaccines. In the present work, we show that calcineurin subunit B promotes the secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines, such as tumor necrosis factor-α, interleukin-12p70 (IL-12 p70), IL-6 and the chemokine IL-8. It also up-regulates transcript levels of chemokines in bone marrow-derived dendritic cells. In an animal model, C57BL/6 mice were divided into four groups, immunized with ovalbumin (OVA), OVA mixed with calcineurin subunit B (CnB), CnB and PBS, respectively. The splenocytes from mice immunized with OVA in combination with CnB produced higher levels of IFN-γ and CTL when in vitro stimulated with OVA protein. Subcutaneous (s.c.) immunization of C57BL/6 mice with OVA plus CnB conferred greater protection against tumor-forming E.G7-OVA cells than did injection of OVA alone, and the survival rate of mice immunized intraperitoneally was higher than that of mice immunized s.c. Thus, CnB exerts potent adjuvant effects that polarize responses toward T(h)1 and elicit anti-tumor and anti-infection immunity. CnB could be of use as a prophylactic adjuvant as it is a human-derived safe agent and has immune-modulating effects that promote the control of cancer and infectious diseases."},"21468931":{"title":"PIKA provides an adjuvant effect to induce strong mucosal and systemic humoral immunity against SARS-CoV.","abstract":"Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) is a deadly infectious disease caused by SARS Coronavirus (SARS-CoV). Inactivated SARS-CoV has been explored as a vaccine against SARS-CoV. However, safe and potent adjuvants, especially with more efficient and economical needle-free vaccination are always needed more urgently in a pandemic. The development of a safe and effective mucosal adjuvant and vaccine for prevention of emergent infectious diseases such as SARS will be an important advancement. PIKA, a stabilized derivative of Poly (I:C), was previously reported to be safe and potent as adjuvant in mouse models. In the present study, we demonstrated that the intraperitoneal and intranasal co-administration of inactivated SARS-CoV vaccine together with this improved Poly (I:C) derivative induced strong anti-SARS-CoV mucosal and systemic humoral immune responses with neutralizing activity against pseudotyped virus. Although intraperitoneal immunization of inactivated SARS-CoV vaccine alone could induce a certain level of neutralizing activity in serum as well as in mucosal sites, co-administration of inactivated SARS-CoV vaccine with PIKA as adjuvant could induce a much higher neutralizing activity. When intranasal immunization was used, PIKA was obligatorily for inducing neutralizing activity in serum as well as in mucosal sites and was correlated with both mucosal IgA and mucosal IgG response. Overall, PIKA could be a good mucosal adjuvant candidate for inactivated SARS-CoV vaccine for use in possible future pandemic."},"21506646":{"title":"IFN-α as a vaccine adjuvant: recent insights into the mechanisms and perspectives for its clinical use.","abstract":"The IFN-α family are pleiotropic cytokines with the longest record of clinical use. Over the last decade, new biological effects of IFN-α on immune cells, including dendritic cells, have been described, supporting the concept that these cytokines can act as effective vaccine adjuvants. Recently, an important advance in our understanding of the mechanisms of interferon adjuvant activity has been achieved. Some clinical studies have been performed to assess the adjuvant activity in individuals immunized with preventive vaccines, showing variable results depending on interferon/vaccine formulation and vaccinated subjects. In spite of many data in animal models, little information is available on the possible advantage of utilizing IFN-α as an adjuvant for cancer vaccines in humans. Further clinical trials specifically designed to explore vaccine adjuvant activity are needed in order to define the best conditions for using IFN-α or IFN-α-conditioned dendritic cells for the development of therapeutic vaccines."},"21527299":{"title":"The safety evaluation of adjuvants during vaccine development: the AS04 experience.","abstract":"Novel adjuvants that contain immunoenhancer molecules are now present in human vaccines either registered or in clinical trials. These adjuvants have the potential to provide clear benefits in improving the magnitude and duration of various aspects of the adaptive immune response. However, the use of immunoenhancers in vaccine formulations may be perceived as introducing theoretical safety risks that need to be addressed during the course of vaccine development. In addition to classical clinical safety evaluation, the licensing authorities recommend that novel adjuvants should be evaluated in non-clinical toxicology studies, both as separate entities and as part of the final vaccine formulation. We present here our approach for the safety evaluation of adjuvanted vaccines using AS04-adjuvanted vaccines as example. This evaluation consists of three tiers: non-clinical toxicology, adjuvant mode-of-action investigations and clinical safety assessment in controlled clinical trials and post-marketing surveillance. We also discuss how the knowledge of adjuvant mode of action can support the current practice of safety evaluation."},"21544096":{"title":"Molecular adjuvant HMGB1 enhances anti-influenza immunity during DNA vaccination.","abstract":"DNA-based vaccines, while highly immunogenic in mice, generate significantly weaker responses in primates. Therefore, current efforts are aimed at increasing their immunogenicity, which include optimizing the plasmid/gene, the vaccine formulation and method of delivery. For example, co-immunization with molecular adjuvants encoding an immunomodulatory protein has been shown to improve the antigen (Ag)-specific immune response. Thus, the incorporation of enhancing elements, such as these, may be particularly important in the influenza model in which high titered antibody (Ab) responses are critical for protection. In this regard, we compared the ability of plasmid-encoded high-mobility group box 1 protein (HMGB1), a novel cytokine in which we have previously mutated in order to increase DNA vaccine immunogenicity, with boost Ag-specific immune responses during DNA vaccination with influenza A/PR/8/34 nucleoprotein or the hemagglutinin of A novel H1N1/09. We show that the HMGB1 adjuvant is capable of enhancing adaptive effector and memory immune responses. Although Ag-specific antibodies were detected in all vaccinated animals, a greater neutralizing Ab response was associated with the HMGB1 adjuvant. Furthermore, these responses improved CD8 T+-cell effector and memory responses and provided protection against a lethal mucosal influenza A/PR/8/34 challenge. Thus, co-immunization with HMGB1 has strong in vivo adjuvant activity during the development of immunity against plasmid-encoded Ag."},"21546794":{"title":"Novel therapeutic vaccine: granulysin and new DNA vaccine against Tuberculosis.","abstract":"Multi-drug resistant (MDR) Mycobacterium Tuberculosis (M.TB) is a big problem in the world. We have developed novel TB therapeutic vaccines. DNA vaccine expressing mycobacterial heat shock protein 65 and IL-12 was delivered by the hemagglutinating virus of Japan (HVJ)-envelope. M. TB, MDR-TB or extremenly drug resistant (XDR-TB) was injected i.v. into DBA/1 mice, and treated with the vaccine three times. This HVJ-E/Hsp65DNA+IL-12DNA vaccine provided strong therapeutic efficacy against MDR-TB and XDR-TB (prolongation of survival time and the decrease in the number of TB) in mice. Therapeutic effect of this vaccine on TB infection was also demonstrated in chronic TB infection murine model using aerosol infection intratracheally. On the other hand, granulysin protein produced from CTL has lethal activity against TB. Granulysin protein vaccine also exerted strong therapeutic effect. Furthermore, we extended our studies to monkey model, which is currently the best animal model of human TB. Hsp65DNA+IL-12 DNA vaccine exerted strong therapeutic efficacy (100% survival and augmentation of immune responses) in the TB-infected monkeys. In contrast, the survival of the saline control group was 60% at 16 week post-challenge. HVJ-Envelope/HSP65 DNA+IL-12 DNA vaccine increased the body weight of TB-infected monkeys, improved the erythrocyte sedimentation rate, and augmentated the immune responses (proliferation of PBL and IL-2 production). The enhancement of IL-2 production from monkeys treated with this vaccine was correlated with the therapeutic efficacy of the vaccine. These data indicate that novel vaccines might be useful against TB including XDR-TB and MDR-TB for human therapeutic clinical trials."},"21690242":{"title":"Evaluation of the safety and immunogenicity in rhesus monkeys of a recombinant malaria vaccine for Plasmodium vivax with a synthetic Toll-like receptor 4 agonist formulated in an emulsion.","abstract":"Plasmodium vivax is the major cause of malaria outside sub-Saharan Africa and inflicts debilitating morbidity and consequent economic impacts in developing countries. In order to produce a P. vivax vaccine for global use, we have previously reported the development of a novel chimeric recombinant protein, VMP001, based on the circumsporozoite protein (CSP) of P. vivax. Very few adjuvant formulations are currently available for human use. Our interest is to evaluate second-generation vaccine formulations to identify novel combinations of adjuvants capable of inducing strong, long-lasting immune responses. In this study rhesus monkeys were immunized intramuscularly three times with VMP001 in combination with a stable emulsion (SE) or a synthetic Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) agonist (glucopyranosyl lipid A [GLA]) in SE (GLA-SE). Sera and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) were tested for the presence of antigen-specific humoral and cellular responses, respectively. All groups of monkeys generated high titers of anti-P. vivax IgG antibodies, as detected by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISAs) and immunofluorescence assays. In addition, all groups generated a cellular immune response characterized by antigen-specific CD4(+) T cells secreting predominantly interleukin-2 (IL-2) and lesser amounts of tumor necrosis factor (TNF). We conclude that the combination of VMP001 and GLA-SE is safe and immunogenic in monkeys and may serve as a potential second-generation vaccine candidate against P. vivax malaria."},"21723901":{"title":"Tumor-specific peptide-based vaccines containing the conformationally biased, response-selective C5a agonists EP54 and EP67 protect against aggressive large B cell lymphoma in a syngeneic murine model.","abstract":"Vaccines to large B cell lymphoma were made by the covalent attachment of an epitope from the gp70 glycoprotein (SSWDFITV) to the N-termini of the conformationally biased, response-selective C5a agonists EP54 (YSFKPMPLaR) and EP67 (YSFKDMP(MeL)aR). Syngeneic Balb/c mice were immunized with these EP54/EP67-containing vaccines and challenged with a lethal dose of the highly liver metastatic and gp70-expressing lymphoma cell line RAW117-H10 to evaluate the ability of these vaccines to induce protective immune outcomes. All mice immunized with SSWDFITVRRYSFKPMPLaR (Vaccine 2) and SSWDFITVRRYSFKDMP(MeL)aR (Vaccine 3) were protected to a lethal challenge of RAW117-H10 lymphoma (>170 days survival) and exhibited no lymphoma infiltration or solid tumor nodules in the liver relative to unvaccinated controls (<18 days survival). Vaccines 2 and 3 contained the protease-sensitive double-Arg (RR) linker sequence between the epitope and the EP54/EP67 moieties in order to provide a site for intracellular proteases to separate the epitope from the EP54/EP67 moieties once internalized by the APC and, consequently, enhance epitope presentation in the context of MHC I/II. These protected mice exhibited an immune outcome consistent with increased involvement of CD8(+) and/or CD4(+) T lymphocytes relative to controls and mice that did not survive or showed low survival rates as with Vaccines 1 and 4, which lacked the RR linker sequence. CD8(+) T lymphocytes activated in response to Vaccines 2 and 3 express cytotoxic specificity for gp70-expressing RAW117-H10 lymphoma cells, but not antigen-irrelevant MDA-MB231A human breast cancer cells. Results are discussed against the backdrop of the ability of EP54/EP67 to selectively target antigens to and activate C5a receptor-bearing antigen presenting cells and the prospects of using such vaccines therapeutically against lymphoma and other cancers."},"21736913":{"title":"Delta inulin polysaccharide adjuvant enhances the ability of split-virion H5N1 vaccine to protect against lethal challenge in ferrets.","abstract":"The reduced immunogenicity of the H5 hemagglutinin (HA), compared to seasonal HA serotypes, has stimulated searches for effective adjuvants to improve H5 vaccine efficacy. This study examined the immunogenicity and protective efficacy in ferrets immunized with a split-virion H5N1 vaccine combined with Advax™, a novel delta inulin-based polysaccharide adjuvant technology that has previously demonstrated ability to augment humoral and cellular immunity to co-administered antigens. Ferrets were vaccinated twice 21 days apart with 7.5 μg or 22.5 μg of a split-virion preparation of A/Vietnam/1203/2004 with or without adjuvant. An additional group received just one immunization with 22.5 μg HA plus adjuvant. Serum antibodies were measured by hemagglutination inhibition and microneutralization assays. Vaccinated animals were challenged intranasally 21 days after the last immunization with 10(6) EID(50) of the homologous strain. Morbidity was assessed by observed behavior, weight loss, temperature, cytopenias, histopathology, and viral load. No serum neutralization antibody was detected after two immunizations with unadjuvanted vaccine. Two immunizations with high or low dose adjuvanted vaccine stimulated high neutralizing antibody titers. Survival was 100% in all groups receiving adjuvanted-vaccine including the single dose group, compared to 67% survival with unadjuvanted vaccine, and 0% survival in saline or adjuvant-alone controls. Minimal morbidity was seen in all animals receiving adjuvanted vaccine, and was limited to rhinorrhea and mild thrombocytopenia, without fever, weight loss, or reduced activity. H5N1 virus was cleared from the nasal wash by day 4 post-challenge only in animals receiving adjuvanted vaccine which also prevented viral invasion of the brain in most animals. In this initial study, Advax™ adjuvant formulations improved the protective efficacy of a split-virion H5N1 vaccine as measured by significantly enhanced immunogenicity, survival, and reduced morbidity."},"21816196":{"title":"Protection of mice from Mycobacterium tuberculosis by ID87/GLA-SE, a novel tuberculosis subunit vaccine candidate.","abstract":"Tuberculosis is a major health concern. Non-living tuberculosis (TB) vaccine candidates may not only be safer than the current vaccine (BCG) but could also be used to boost BCG to enhance or elongate protection. No subunit vaccines, however, are currently available for TB. To address this gap and to improve the global TB situation, we have generated a defined subunit vaccine by genetically fusing the genes of 3 potent protein Mtb antigens, Rv2875, Rv3478 and Rv1886, into a single product: ID87. When delivered with a TLR4 agonist-based adjuvant, GLA-SE, ID87 immunization reduced Mtb burden in the lungs of experimentally infected mice. The reduction in bacterial burden of ID87/GLA-SE immunized mice was accompanied by an early and significant leukocyte infiltration into the lungs during the infectious process. ID87/GLA-SE appears to be a promising new vaccine candidate that warrants further development."},"21850242":{"title":"CAF01 potentiates immune responses and efficacy of an inactivated influenza vaccine in ferrets.","abstract":"Trivalent inactivated vaccines (TIV) against influenza are given to 350 million people every year. Most of these are non-adjuvanted vaccines whose immunogenicity and protective efficacy are considered suboptimal. Commercially available non-adjuvanted TIV are known to elicit mainly a humoral immune response, whereas the induction of cell-mediated immune responses is negligible. Recently, a cationic liposomal adjuvant (dimethyldioctadecylammonium/trehalose 6,6'-dibehenate, CAF01) was developed. CAF01 has proven to enhance both humoral and cell-mediated immune responses to a number of different experimental vaccine candidates. In this study, we compared the immune responses in ferrets to a commercially available TIV with the responses to the same vaccine mixed with the CAF01 adjuvant. Two recently circulating H1N1 viruses were used as challenge to test the vaccine efficacy. CAF01 improved the immunogenicity of the vaccine, with increased influenza-specific IgA and IgG levels. Additionally, CAF01 promoted cellular-mediated immunity as indicated by interferon-gamma expressing lymphocytes, measured by flow cytometry. CAF01 also enhanced the protection conferred by the vaccine by reducing the viral load measured in nasal washes by RT-PCR. Finally, CAF01 allowed for dose-reduction and led to higher levels of protection compared to TIV adjuvanted with a squalene emulsion. The data obtained in this human-relevant challenge model supports the potential of CAF01 in future influenza vaccines."},"21997231":{"title":"CCL21 (SLC) improves tumor protection by a DNA vaccine in a Her2/neu mouse tumor model.","abstract":"Secondary lymphoid-tissue chemokine (SLC/CCL21) is a CC chemokine that is constitutively expressed in various lymphoid tissues and binds to chemokine receptor CCR7 on mature dendritic cells (DCs) and distinct T-and B-cell sub-populations. In vivo, CCL21 regulates the encounters between DC and T cells and thus is a key regulator of adaptive immune responses. We asked whether CCL21 is able to augment immunogenicity of a DNA-based vaccine against Her2/neu in a Balb/c mouse model with syngeneic Her2/neu+ tumor cells (D2F2/E2). Mice were vaccinated intramuscularly with plasmid DNA (pDNA) on day 1 and boosted on day 15; tumor challenge was performed subcutaneously on day 25. Coexpression of CCL21 and Her-2/neu resulted in induction of a TH1-polarized immune response and substantial improvement of the protective effect of the DNA vaccine. Coexpression of tumor antigen pDNA(Her2/neu) with both pDNA(GM-CSF) and pDNA(CCL21) as adjuvants led to further improvement of protection by the vaccine (70% tumor-free mice on day 35 vs 40% with either adjuvant alone vs 5-10% with tumor antigen alone). Our results show that CCL21 is a potent adjuvant for DNA vaccination, particularly in combination with granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF). Clinical use of a pDNA(Her2/neu/CCL21/GM-CSF) vaccine might be particularly promising in minimal residual Her2/neu+ breast cancer."},"22027714":{"title":"Flagellin enhances saliva IgA response and protection of anti-caries DNA vaccine.","abstract":"We and others have shown that anti-caries DNA vaccines, including pGJA-P/VAX, are promising for preventing dental caries. However, challenges remain because of the low immunogenicity of DNA vaccines. In this study, we used recombinant flagellin protein derived from Salmonella (FliC) as a mucosal adjuvant for anti-caries DNA vaccine (pGJA-P/VAX) and analyzed the effects of FliC protein on the serum PAc-specific IgG and saliva PAc-specific IgA antibody responses, the colonization of Streptococcus mutans (S. mutans) on rat teeth, and the formation of caries lesions. Our results showed that FliC promoted the production of PAc-specific IgG in serum and secretory IgA (S-IgA) in saliva of rats by intranasal immunization with pGJA-P/VAX plus FliC. Furthermore, we found that enhanced PAc-specific IgA responses in saliva were associated with the inhibition of S. mutans colonization of tooth surfaces and endowed better protection with significant fewer caries lesions. In conclusion, our study demonstrates that recombinant FliC could enhance specific IgA responses in saliva and protective ability of pGJA-P/VAX, providing an effective mucosal adjuvant candidate for intranasal immunization of an anti-caries DNA vaccine."},"22079079":{"title":"Safety and immunogenicity of a novel nanoemulsion mucosal adjuvant W805EC combined with approved seasonal influenza antigens.","abstract":"Improving the systemic and mucosal immune response following intranasal vaccination could enhance disease protection against respiratory pathogens. We assessed the safety and immunogenicity of a novel nanoemulsion mucosal adjuvant W(80)5EC combined with approved seasonal influenza antigens. This was a first-in-human Phase I study in 199 healthy adult volunteers randomized to receive a single intranasal administration of 5%, 10%, 15% or 20% W(80)5EC, combined with 4 or 10 μg strain-specific Fluzone(®) HA, compared with intranasal PBS, intranasal Fluzone(®), or 15 ug strain-specific intramuscular Fluzone(®). Safety was evaluated by physical examination, laboratory parameters, symptom diaries, and adverse event reports. Serum HAI titers and nasal wash IgA were assessed at baseline as well as 28 and 60 days after vaccination. W(80)5EC adjuvant combined with seasonal influenza antigens was well tolerated without safety concerns or significant adverse events. The highest dose of 20% W(80)5EC combined with 10 μg strain-specific HA elicited clinically meaningful systemic immunity based on increases in serum HAI GMT and ≥ 70% seroprotection for all 3 influenza strains, as well as a rise in antigen-specific IgA in nasal wash specimens. W(80)5EC adjuvant was safe and well tolerated in healthy adult volunteers and elicited both systemic and mucosal immunity following a single intranasal vaccination."},"22095092":{"title":"CAF05: cationic liposomes that incorporate synthetic cord factor and poly(I:C) induce CTL immunity and reduce tumor burden in mice.","abstract":"Considerable effort has been put into targeting tumors through therapeutic vaccination using dendritic cell-, DNA-, protein-, or peptide-based vaccines. Purified peptides and proteins are generally not immunogenic and need to be administered with an adjuvant that will trigger an appropriate immune response. Safe adjuvants that favor induction of tumor reactive CD8(+) T cells with the capacity to directly kill tumor cells are therefore a high priority. We have previously reported on the effect and mechanism of a cationic adjuvant formulation, CAF01, which incorporates synthetic mycobacterial cord factor and primes protective Th1, Th17, and antibody responses in animal models of bacterial, viral, and parasitic infections. The CAF01 adjuvant is currently in clinical trial. Using CAF01 as a backbone, we recently demonstrated that incorporating the TLR3 ligand polyinosinic/polycytidylic acid [poly(I:C)] primes CD8(+) T cells specific to the SIINFEKL epitope of the model antigen ovalbumin. In the present study, we demonstrate that CAF01/poly(I:C), termed cationic adjuvant formulation 05 or CAF05, can induce CD8(+) T cells that efficiently lyse target cells and significantly reduce tumor growth in two different mouse tumor models: lung B16-OVA melanoma expressing ovalbumin and the self-antigen TRP2, and subcutaneous TC-1 tumors expressing the human papillomavirus-16 protein E7."},"22147791":{"title":"GLA-SE, a synthetic toll-like receptor 4 agonist, enhances T-cell responses to influenza vaccine in older adults.","abstract":"The decline in influenza vaccine efficacy in older adults is associated with a limited ability of current split-virus vaccines (SVVs) to stimulate cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) responses required for clinical protection against influenza. The Toll-like receptor 4 agonist glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant-stable emulsion (GLA-SE) was combined with SVV to stimulate peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) in vitro to determine the cytokine response in dendritic cell subsets. Stimulated PBMCs were then challenged with live influenza virus to mimic the response to natural infection following vaccination, using previously identified T-cell correlates of protection. GLA-SE significantly increased the proportion of myeloid dendritic cells that produced tumor necrosis factor α, interleukin 6, and interleukin 12. When combined with SVV to stimulate PBMCs in vitro, this effect of GLA-SE was shown to regulate a T-helper 1 cell response upon challenge with live influenza virus; interleukin 10 production was suppressed, thus significantly increasing the interferon γ to interleukin 10 ratio and the cytolytic (granzyme B) response to influenza virus challenge, both of which have been shown to correlate with protection against influenza in older adults. Our findings suggest that a novel adjuvant, GLA-SE, combined with standard SVV has the potential to significantly improve vaccine-mediated protection against influenza in older adults."},"22202122":{"title":"Broadly protective Shigella vaccine based on type III secretion apparatus proteins.","abstract":"Shigella spp. are food- and waterborne pathogens that cause severe diarrheal and dysenteric disease associated with high morbidity and mortality. Individuals most often affected are children under 5 years of age in the developing world. The existence of multiple Shigella serotypes and the heterogenic distribution of pathogenic strains, as well as emerging antibiotic resistance, require the development of a broadly protective vaccine. All Shigella spp. utilize a type III secretion system (TTSS) to initiate infection. The type III secretion apparatus (TTSA) is the molecular needle and syringe that form the energized conduit between the bacterial cytoplasm and the host cell to transport effector proteins that manipulate cellular processes to benefit the pathogen. IpaB and IpaD form a tip complex atop the TTSA needle and are required for pathogenesis. Because they are common to all virulent Shigella spp., they are ideal candidate antigens for a subunit-based, broad-spectrum vaccine. We examined the immunogenicity and protective efficacy of IpaB and IpaD, alone or combined, coadministered with a double mutant heat-labile toxin (dmLT) from Escherichia coli, used as a mucosal adjuvant, in a mouse model of intranasal immunization and pulmonary challenge. Robust systemic and mucosal antibody- and T cell-mediated immunities were induced against both proteins, particularly IpaB. Mice immunized in the presence of dmLT with IpaB alone or IpaB combined with IpaD were fully protected against lethal pulmonary infection with Shigella flexneri and Shigella sonnei. We provide the first demonstration that the Shigella TTSAs IpaB and IpaD are promising antigens for the development of a cross-protective Shigella vaccine."},"22240340":{"title":"Protective immune response against Toxoplasma gondii elicited by a recombinant DNA vaccine with a novel genetic adjuvant.","abstract":"Previous immunological studies from our laboratory have demonstrated the potential role of Toxoplasma gondii antigens SAG1 and GRA2 as vaccine candidates. To further evaluate the vaccine's effects, a series of recombinant DNA vaccines pVAX1-SAG1, pVAX1-GRA2 and pVAX1-SAG1-GRA2, termed pSAG1, pGRA2 and pSAG1-GRA2, respectively, were constructed. A plasmid pVAX1-S/PreS2, termed pSPreS2 encoding hepatitis B virus (HBV) surface antigen (HBsAg) S and PreS2 as a novel genetic adjuvant, was also constructed. The expression abilities of those DNA plasmids were examined in HFF cells by Western blotting. Then BALB/c mice were intramuscularly immunized with DNA plasmids and followed by challenging with the highly virulent T. gondii RH strain. The results demonstrated that the recombinant DNA vaccine pSAG1-GRA2 was capable of eliciting high levels of antibodies, a Th1 type of immune response with significant production of IFN-γ and low levels of IL-4 or IL-10 in BALB/c mice, and partial protection against the acute phase of toxoplasmosis as compared to pSAG1, pGRA2 and controls. In addition, the adjuvant pSPreS2 formulated with DNA vaccine induced a Th1 type of immune response and therefore might be a novel genetic adjuvant to DNA vaccine for further investigation."},"22266469":{"title":"Synthetic mast-cell granules as adjuvants to promote and polarize immunity in lymph nodes.","abstract":"Granules of mast cells (MCs) enhance adaptive immunity when, on activation, they are released as stable particles. Here we show that submicrometre particles modelled after MC granules augment immunity when used as adjuvants in vaccines. The synthetic particles, which consist of a carbohydrate backbone with encapsulated inflammatory mediators such as tumour necrosis factor, replicate attributes of MCs in vivo including the targeting of draining lymph nodes and the timed release of the encapsulated mediators. When used as an adjuvant during vaccination of mice with haemagglutinin from the influenza virus, the particles enhanced adaptive immune responses and increased survival of mice on lethal challenge. Furthermore, differential loading of the particles with the cytokine IL-12 directed the character of the response towards Th1 lymphocytes. The synthetic MC adjuvants replicate and enhance the functions of MCs during vaccination, and can be extended to polarize the resulting immunity."},"22291184":{"title":"The importance of adjuvant formulation in the development of a tuberculosis vaccine.","abstract":"An effective protein-based vaccine for tuberculosis will require a safe and effective adjuvant. There are few adjuvants in approved human vaccines, including alum and the oil-in-water-based emulsions MF59 (Novartis Vaccines and Diagnostics), AS03 and AS04 (GlaxoSmithKline Biologics), AF03 (Sanofi), and liposomes (Crucell). When used with pure, defined proteins, both alum and emulsion adjuvants are effective at inducing primarily humoral responses. One of the newest adjuvants in approved products is AS04, which combines monophosphoryl lipid A, a TLR-4 agonist, with alum. In this study, we compared two adjuvants: a stable oil-in-water emulsion (SE) and a stable oil-in-water emulsion incorporating glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant, a synthetic TLR-4 agonist (GLA-SE), each together with a recombinant protein, ID93. Both the emulsion SE and GLA-SE adjuvants induce potent cellular responses in combination with ID93 in mice. ID93/SE induced Th2-biased immune responses, whereas ID93/GLA-SE induced multifunctional CD4(+) Th1 cell responses (IFN-γ, TNF-α, and IL-2). The ID93/GLA-SE vaccine candidate induced significant protection in mice and guinea pigs, whereas no protection was observed with ID93/SE, as assessed by reductions in bacterial burden, survival, and pathology. These results highlight the importance of properly formulating subunit vaccines with effective adjuvants for use against tuberculosis."},"22406456":{"title":"Bioencapsulation of the hepatitis B surface antigen and its use as an effective oral immunogen.","abstract":"Hepatitis B remains a major global health problem despite the availability of a safe and effective vaccine. Segments of the population lack access to or respond poorly to the parenteral vaccine, perpetuating the infection-transmission cycle. A low cost, orally delivered vaccine has the potential to alleviate many of these problems. Here we describe the expression of a bioencapsulated hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) in maize and its immunogenicity, demonstrating for the first time a commercially feasible oral subunit vaccine production system for a major disease. This work surmounts previous barriers to plant-produced vaccines by expressing HBsAg at much higher levels and retaining antigen immunogenicity post-processing: factors which facilitated a robust immune response in mice without the need for an adjuvant. This method provides a practical solution to the delivery of a low-cost, stable oral vaccine."},"22425788":{"title":"Evaluation of immune responses to a Plasmodium vivax CSP-based recombinant protein vaccine candidate in combination with second-generation adjuvants in mice.","abstract":"Plasmodium vivax is the major cause of malaria outside of sub-Saharan Africa and causes morbidity and results in significant economic impact in developing countries. In order to produce a P. vivax vaccine for global use, we have previously reported the development of VMP001, based on the circumsporozoite protein (CSP) of P. vivax. Our interest is to evaluate second-generation vaccine formulations to identify novel combinations of adjuvants capable of inducing strong, long-lasting immune responses. In this study, groups of C57BL/6J mice were immunized subcutaneously three times with VMP001 emulsified with synthetic TLR4 (GLA) or TLR7/8 (R848) agonist in stable emulsion (SE), a combination of the TLR4 and TLR7/8 agonists, or SE alone. Sera and splenocytes were tested for the presence of antigen-specific humoral and cellular responses, respectively. All groups of mice generated high titers of anti-P. vivax IgG antibodies as detected by ELISA and immunofluorescence assay. GLA-SE promoted a shift in the antibody response to a Th1 profile, as demonstrated by the change in IgG2c/IgG1 ratio. In addition, GLA-SE induced a strong cellular immune response characterized by multi-functional, antigen-specific CD4(+) T cells secreting IL-2, TNF and IFN-γ. In contrast, mice immunized with SE or R848-SE produced low numbers of antigen-specific CD4(+) T cells, and these T cells secreted IL-2 and TNF, but not IFN-γ. Finally, R848-SE did not enhance the immune response compared to GLA-SE alone. Based on these results, we conclude that the combination of VMP001 and GLA-SE is highly immunogenic in mice and may serve as a potential second-generation vaccine candidate against vivax malaria."},"22509423":{"title":"KSAC, a defined Leishmania antigen, plus adjuvant protects against the virulence of L. major transmitted by its natural vector Phlebotomus duboscqi.","abstract":"Recombinant KSAC and L110f are promising Leishmania vaccine candidates. Both antigens formulated in stable emulsions (SE) with the natural TLR4 agonist MPL® and L110f with the synthetic TLR4 agonist GLA in SE protected BALB/c mice against L. major infection following needle challenge. Considering the virulence of vector-transmitted Leishmania infections, we vaccinated BALB/c mice with either KSAC+GLA-SE or L110f+GLA-SE to assess protection against L. major transmitted via its vector Phlebotomus duboscqi. Mice receiving the KSAC or L110f vaccines were challenged by needle or L. major-infected sand flies. Weekly disease progression and terminal parasite loads were determined. Immunological responses to KSAC, L110f, or soluble Leishmania antigen (SLA) were assessed throughout vaccination, three and twelve weeks after immunization, and one week post-challenge. Following sand fly challenge, KSAC-vaccinated mice were protected while L110f-vaccinated animals showed partial protection. Protection correlated with the ability of SLA to induce IFN-γ-producing CD4(+)CD62L(low)CCR7(low) effector memory T cells pre- and post-sand fly challenge. This study demonstrates the protective efficacy of KSAC+GLA-SE against sand fly challenge; the importance of vector-transmitted challenge in evaluating vaccine candidates against Leishmania infection; and the necessity of a rapid potent Th1 response against Leishmania to attain true protection."},"22526674":{"title":"The A subunit of Escherichia coli heat-labile enterotoxin functions as a mucosal adjuvant and promotes IgG2a, IgA, and Th17 responses to vaccine antigens.","abstract":"Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli (ETEC) produces both heat-labile (LT) and heat-stable (ST) enterotoxins and is a major cause of diarrhea in infants in developing countries and in travelers to those regions. In addition to inducing fluid secretion, LT is a powerful mucosal adjuvant capable of promoting immune responses to coadministered antigens. In this study, we examined purified A subunit to further understand the toxicity and adjuvanticity of LT. Purified A subunit was enzymatically active but sensitive to proteolytic degradation and unable to bind gangliosides, and even in the presence of admixed B subunit, it displayed low cyclic AMP (cAMP) induction and no enterotoxicity. Thus, the AB5 structure plays a key role in protecting the A subunit from proteolytic degradation and in delivering the enzymatic signals required for secretion. In contrast, the A subunit alone was capable of activating dendritic cells and enhanced immune responses to multiple antigens following intranasal immunization; therefore, unlike toxicity, LT adjuvanticity is not dependent on the AB5 holotoxin structure or the presence of the B subunit. However, immune responses were maximal when signals were received from both subunits either in an AB5 structure or with A and B admixed. Furthermore, the quality of the immune response (i.e., IgG1/IgG2 balance and mucosal IgA and IL-17 secretion) was determined by the presence of an A subunit, revealing for the first time induction of Th17 responses with the A subunit alone. These results have important implications for understanding ETEC pathogenesis, unraveling immunologic responses induced by LT-based adjuvants, and developing new mucosal vaccines."},"22550117":{"title":"Effects of recombinant human interleukin 7 on T-cell recovery and thymic output in HIV-infected patients receiving antiretroviral therapy: results of a phase I/IIa randomized, placebo-controlled, multicenter study.","abstract":"The immune deficiency of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection is not fully corrected with ARV therapy. Interleukin-7 (IL-7) can boost CD4 T-cell counts, but optimal dosing and mechanisms of cellular increases need to be defined. We performed a randomized placebo-controlled dose escalation (10, 20 and 30 µg/kg) trial of 3 weekly doses of recombinant human IL-7 (rhIL-7) in ARV-treated HIV-infected persons with CD4 T-cell counts between 101 and 400 cells/µL and plasma HIV levels <50 copies/mL. Toxicity, activity and the impact of rhIL-7 on immune reconstitution were monitored. Doses of rhIL-7 up to 20 µg/kg were well tolerated. CD4 increases of predominantly naive and central memory T cells were brisk (averaging 323 cells/µL at 12 weeks) and durable (up to 1 year). Increased cell cycling and transient increased bcl-2 expression were noted. Expanded cells did not have the characteristics of regulatory or activated T cells. Transient low-level HIV viremia was seen in 6 of 26 treated patients; modest increases in total levels of intracellular HIV DNA were proportional to CD4 T-cell expansions. IL-7 seemed to increase thymic output and tended to improve the T-cell receptor (TCR) repertoire in persons with low TCR diversity. Three weekly doses of rhIL-7 at 20 µg/kg are well tolerated and lead to a dose-dependent CD4 T-cell increase and the broadening of TCR diversity in some subjects. These data suggest that this rhIL-7 dose could be advanced in future rhIL-7 clinical studies. NCT0047732."},"22615877":{"title":"The adjuvanticity of an O. volvulus-derived rOv-ASP-1 protein in mice using sequential vaccinations and in non-human primates.","abstract":"Adjuvants potentiate antigen-specific protective immune responses and can be key elements promoting vaccine effectiveness. We previously reported that the Onchocerca volvulus recombinant protein rOv-ASP-1 can induce activation and maturation of naïve human DCs and therefore could be used as an innate adjuvant to promote balanced Th1 and Th2 responses to bystander vaccine antigens in mice. With a few vaccine antigens, it also promoted a Th1-biased response based on pronounced induction of Th1-associated IgG2a and IgG2b antibody responses and the upregulated production of Th1 cytokines, including IL-2, IFN-γ, TNF-α and IL-6. However, because it is a protein, the rOv-ASP-1 adjuvant may also induce anti-self-antibodies. Therefore, it was important to verify that the host responses to self will not affect the adjuvanticity of rOv-ASP-1 when it is used in subsequent vaccinations with the same or different vaccine antigens. In this study, we have established rOv-ASP-1's adjuvanticity in mice during the course of two sequential vaccinations using two vaccine model systems: the receptor-binding domain (RBD) of SARS-CoV spike protein and a commercial influenza virus hemagglutinin (HA) vaccine comprised of three virus strains. Moreover, the adjuvanticity of rOv-ASP-1 was retained with an efficacy similar to that obtained when it was used for a first vaccination, even though a high level of anti-rOv-ASP-1 antibodies was present in the sera of mice before the administration of the second vaccine. To further demonstrate its utility as an adjuvant for human use, we also immunized non-human primates (NHPs) with RBD plus rOv-ASP-1 and showed that rOv-ASP-1 could induce high titres of functional and protective anti-RBD antibody responses in NHPs. Notably, the rOv-ASP-1 adjuvant did not induce high titer antibodies against self in NHPs. Thus, the present study provided a sound scientific foundation for future strategies in the development of this novel protein adjuvant."},"22652401":{"title":"Calcineurin B subunit triggers innate immunity and acts as a novel Engerix-B HBV vaccine adjuvant.","abstract":"We showed previously that calcineurin B subunit (CnB) protein activates innate immune cells including macrophages, monocytes and dendritic cells and acts as an adjuvant of a model antigen (ovalbumin) and a recombinant pneumolysin antigen, but the detailed mechanism is not clear and whether it can serve as an adjuvant of a commercial HBV vaccine is unknown. Here, we report that CnB promotes inflammatory cytokines production, splenocytes proliferation and NK lytic activity, and that CnB-induced inflammatory cytokines (IFN-γ, IL-6, TNF-α) production is dependent on integrin αM. Animal experiments demonstrate that CnB markedly increases the total anti-HBs antibodies in a dose and time dependent manner. Furthermore, CnB increases both anti-HBs IgM and anti-HBs IgG titers and changes the balance of IgG2a and IgG1. Combined use of CnB and CpG induces more cytokines production in splenocytes, as well as more anti-HBs antibodies production in vivo. These results reveal a probable mechanism of CnB-induced inflammatory cytokines production and further demonstrate that CnB is a novel and effective adjuvant of Engerix-B HBV vaccine."},"22701668":{"title":"Novel structurally designed vaccine for S. aureus α-hemolysin: protection against bacteremia and pneumonia.","abstract":"Staphylococcus aureus (S. aureus) is a human pathogen associated with skin and soft tissue infections (SSTI) and life threatening sepsis and pneumonia. Efforts to develop effective vaccines against S. aureus have been largely unsuccessful, in part due to the variety of virulence factors produced by this organism. S. aureus alpha-hemolysin (Hla) is a pore-forming toxin expressed by most S. aureus strains and reported to play a key role in the pathogenesis of SSTI and pneumonia. Here we report a novel recombinant subunit vaccine candidate for Hla, rationally designed based on the heptameric crystal structure. This vaccine candidate, denoted AT-62aa, was tested in pneumonia and bacteremia infection models using S. aureus strain Newman and the pandemic strain USA300 (LAC). Significant protection from lethal bacteremia/sepsis and pneumonia was observed upon vaccination with AT-62aa along with a Glucopyranosyl Lipid Adjuvant-Stable Emulsion (GLA-SE) that is currently in clinical trials. Passive transfer of rabbit immunoglobulin against AT-62aa (AT62-IgG) protected mice against intraperitoneal and intranasal challenge with USA300 and produced significant reduction in bacterial burden in blood, spleen, kidney, and lungs. Our Hla-based vaccine is the first to be reported to reduce bacterial dissemination and to provide protection in a sepsis model of S. aureus infection. AT62-IgG and sera from vaccinated mice effectively neutralized the toxin in vitro and AT62-IgG inhibited the formation of Hla heptamers, suggesting antibody-mediated neutralization as the primary mechanism of action. This remarkable efficacy makes this Hla-based vaccine a prime candidate for inclusion in future multivalent S. aureus vaccine. Furthermore, identification of protective epitopes within AT-62aa could lead to novel immunotherapy for S. aureus infection."},"22717330":{"title":"Randomized clinical trial of immunogenicity and safety of a recombinant H1N1/2009 pandemic influenza vaccine containing Advax™ polysaccharide adjuvant.","abstract":"Timely vaccine supply is critical during influenza pandemics. A recombinant hemagglutinin (rHA)-based vaccine could overcome production hurdles of egg-based vaccines but has never previously been tested in a real-life pandemic setting. The primary aim was to determine the efficacy of a recombinant pandemic vaccine and whether its immunogenicity could be enhanced by a novel polysaccharide adjuvant (Advax™). 281 adults aged 18-70 years were recruited in a randomized, subject and observer blinded, parallel-group study of rHA H1N1/2009 vaccine with or without adjuvant. Immunizations were at 0 and 3 weeks with rHA 3, 11 or 45 μg. Serology and safety was followed for 6 months. At baseline, only 9.1% of subjects (95% CI: 6.0-13.2) had seroprotective H1N1/2009 titers. Seroconversion rates varied by rHA dose, presence of adjuvant, subject age and number of immunizations. Eighty percent (95% CI: 52-96) of 18-49 year olds who received rHA 45 μg with adjuvant were seroprotected at week 3, representing a 11.1-fold increase in antibody titers from baseline. Advax™ adjuvant increased seroprotection rates by 1.9 times after the first, and 2.5 times after the second, immunization when compared to rHA alone. Seroprotection was sustained at 26 weeks and the vaccine was well tolerated with no safety issues. The study confirmed the ability to design, manufacture, and release a recombinant vaccine within a short time from the start of an actual influenza pandemic. Advax™ adjuvant significantly enhanced rHA immunogenicity."},"22720700":{"title":"A DNA vaccine encoding the FMDV capsid precursor polypeptide P1 and the enhancing effect of bovine herpesvirus 1 VP22 protein as molecular adjuvant.","abstract":"DNA vaccines containing the capsid precursor polypeptide P1 gene of foot-and-mouth disease virus (FMDV) alone or combined with the VP22 gene of bovine herpesvirus 1 (BVP22) as molecular adjuvant were constructed and used for immunization of BALB/c mice. The latter were challenged with FMDV and their humoral as well as cell-mediated immune responses and virus clearance capacity were assayed. Both DNA vaccines elicited specific immune responses, however, the DNA vaccine with the BVP22 adjuvant showed stronger responses and more efficient virus clearance. A stronger Th1 response was indicated by the IgG2a/IgG1 ratio. These results indicate that (i) a DNA vaccine based on FMDV P1 can stimulate significant immune responses and virus clearance and (ii) BVP22 is a potentially useful molecular adjuvant for such a vaccine. DNA vaccine; foot-and-mouth disease virus; bovine herpesvirus 1."},"22728225":{"title":"Advax™, a polysaccharide adjuvant derived from delta inulin, provides improved influenza vaccine protection through broad-based enhancement of adaptive immune responses.","abstract":"Advax™ adjuvant is derived from inulin, a natural plant-derived polysaccharide that when crystallized in the delta polymorphic form, becomes immunologically active. This study was performed to assess the ability of Advax™ adjuvant to enhance influenza vaccine immunogenicity and protection. Mice were immunized with influenza vaccine alone or combined with Advax™ adjuvant. Immuno-phenotyping of the anti-influenza response was performed including antibody isotypes, B-cell ELISPOT, CD4 and CD8 T-cell proliferation, influenza-stimulated cytokine secretion, DTH skin tests and challenge with live influenza virus. Advax™ adjuvant increased neutralizing antibody and memory B-cell responses to influenza. It similarly enhanced CD4 and CD8 T-cell proliferation and increased influenza-stimulated IL-2, IFN-γ, IL-5, IL-6, and GM-CSF responses. This translated into enhanced protection against mortality and morbidity in mice. Advax™ adjuvant provided significant antigen dose-sparing compared to influenza antigen alone. Protection could be transferred from mice that had received Advax™-adjuvanted vaccine to naïve mice by immune serum. Enhanced humoral and T-cell responses induced by Advax™-formulated vaccine were sustained 12months post-immunization. Advax™ adjuvant had low reactogenicity and no adverse events were identified. This suggests Advax™ adjuvant could be a useful influenza vaccine adjuvant."},"22844480":{"title":"Matrix-M™ adjuvant induces local recruitment, activation and maturation of central immune cells in absence of antigen.","abstract":"Saponin-based adjuvants are widely used to enhance humoral and cellular immune responses towards vaccine antigens, although it is not yet completely known how they mediate their stimulatory effects. The aim of this study was to elucidate the mechanism of action of adjuvant Matrix-M™ without antigen and Alum was used as reference adjuvant. Adjuvant Matrix-M™ is comprised of 40 nm nanoparticles composed of Quillaja saponins, cholesterol and phospholipid. BALB/c mice were subcutaneously injected once with, 3, 12 or 30 µg of Matrix-M™, resulting in recruitment of leukocytes to draining lymph nodes (dLNs) and spleen 48 h post treatment. Flow cytometry analysis identified CD11b(+) Gr-1(high) granulocytes as the cell population increasing most in dLNs and spleen. Additionally, dendritic cells, F4/80(int) cells, T-, B- and NK-cells were recruited to dLNs and in spleen the number of F4/80(int) cells, and to some extent, B cells and dendritic cells, increased. Elevated levels of early activation marker CD69 were detected on T-, B- and NK-cells, CD11b(+) Gr-1(high) cells, F4/80(int) cells and dendritic cells in dLNs. In spleen CD69 was mainly up-regulated on NK cells. B cells and dendritic cells in dLNs and spleen showed an increased expression of the co-stimulatory molecule CD86 and dendritic cells in dLNs expressed elevated levels of MHC class II. The high-dose (30 µg) of Matrix-M™ induced detectable serum levels of IL-6 and MIP-1β 4 h post administration, most likely representing spillover of locally produced cytokines. A lesser increase of IL-6 in serum after administration of 12 µg Matrix-M™ was also observed. In conclusion, early immunostimulatory properties were demonstrated by Matrix-M™ alone, as therapeutic doses resulted in a local transient immune response with recruitment and activation of central immune cells to dLNs. These effects may play a role in enhancing uptake and presentation of vaccine antigens to elicit a competent immune response."},"22891286":{"title":"Therapeutic immunization against Mycobacterium tuberculosis is an effective adjunct to antibiotic treatment.","abstract":"Recent advances in rational adjuvant design and antigen selection have enabled a new generation of vaccines with potential to treat and prevent infectious disease. The aim of this study was to assess whether therapeutic immunization could impact the course of Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection with use of a candidate tuberculosis vaccine antigen, ID93, formulated in a synthetic nanoemulsion adjuvant, GLA-SE, administered in combination with existing first-line chemotherapeutics rifampicin and isoniazid. We used a mouse model of fatal tuberculosis and the established cynomolgus monkey model to design an immuno-chemotherapeutic strategy to increase long-term survival and reduce bacterial burden, compared with standard antibiotic chemotherapy alone. This combined approach induced robust and durable pluripotent antigen-specific T helper-1-type immune responses, decreased bacterial burden, reduced the duration of conventional chemotherapy required for survival, and decreased M. tuberculosis-induced lung pathology, compared with chemotherapy alone. These results demonstrate the ability of therapeutic immunization to significantly enhance the efficacy of chemotherapy against tuberculosis and other infectious diseases, with implications for treatment duration, patient compliance, and more optimal resource allocation."},"22896687":{"title":"Effects on immunogenicity by formulations of emulsion-based adjuvants for malaria vaccines.","abstract":"New malaria vaccines are urgently needed to improve vaccine protective efficacy. PfCelTOS is a recombinant malaria vaccine antigen that has shown protective efficacy in a small-animal challenge model when combined with a water-in-oil emulsion adjuvant (Montanide ISA 720). In this report, we show that PfCelTOS vaccines containing GLA-SE (a stable oil-in-water emulsion combined with a Toll-like receptor 4 [TLR4] agonist) elicit strong Th1-type immune responses in BALB/c mice. These responses include higher antigen-specific IgG2a antibody titers and more gamma interferon (IFN-γ) production than those seen with a PfCelTOS vaccine containing Montanide ISA 720. Furthermore, reducing the emulsion dose from 2% to 1% or 0.5% (vol/vol) squalene in GLA-SE did not compromise immunogenicity. Emulsion dose titration in the absence of formulated GLA caused some reduction in humoral and cellular immune responses compared to those with the 2% squalene emulsion dose."},"22968459":{"title":"IL-36 signaling amplifies Th1 responses by enhancing proliferation and Th1 polarization of naive CD4+ T cells.","abstract":"The interleukin-1 (IL-1) superfamily of cytokines comprises a set of pivotal mediators of inflammation. Among them, the action of IL-36 cytokines in immune responses has remained elusive. In a recent study, we demonstrated a direct effect of IL-36 on immune cells. Here we show that, among T cells, the IL-36 receptor is predominantly expressed on naive CD4(+) T cells and that IL-36 cytokines act directly on naive T cells by enhancing both cell proliferation and IL-2 secretion. IL-36β acts in synergy with IL-12 to promote Th1 polarization and IL-36 signaling is also involved in mediating Th1 immune responses to Bacillus Calmette-Guerin infection in vivo. Our findings point toward a critical function of IL-36 in the priming of Th1 cell responses in vitro, and in adaptive immunity in a model of mycobacterial infection in vivo."},"23006659":{"title":"Astragalus polysaccharides enhance immune responses of HBV DNA vaccination via promoting the dendritic cell maturation and suppressing Treg frequency in mice.","abstract":"Astragalus polysaccharides (APS), an extract from a kind of Chinese traditional herb Astragalus membranaceus, was proved to have strong immunoregulatory properties. In this study, APS was employed as an adjuvant of Hepatitis B virus (HBV) DNA vaccine (pcDS2) and its' effects on immune system of mice were investigated. Our data demonstrated that APS as an adjuvant could increase the HBsAg-specific antibody level as well as the proliferating activity of T cells. APS also could induce CD4(+) T cells to produce IL-4, IL-2 and IFN-γ and enhance IFN-γ expression of CD8(+) T cells. Moreover, APS could induce the robust activity of the cytotoxic lymphocytes (CTL). Additionally, APS could stimulate the dendritic cells (DC) maturation which is characterized by up-regulation of MHC I/II, CD40, CD80 and CD86, and decreased the frequency of the regulatory T cells (nTreg). Collectively, these findings suggest that APS is a potent adjuvant for the hepatitis B DNA vaccine and can enhance the immune responses of HBV DNA vaccine via promoting DC maturation and inhibit the Treg frequency."},"23045649":{"title":"Adjuvant solution for pandemic influenza vaccine production.","abstract":"Extensive preparation is underway to mitigate the next pandemic influenza outbreak. New vaccine technologies intended to supplant egg-based production methods are being developed, with recombinant hemagglutinin (rHA) as the most advanced program for preventing seasonal and avian H5N1 Influenza. Increased efforts are being focused on adjuvants that can broaden vaccine immunogenicity against emerging viruses and maximize vaccine supply on a worldwide scale. Here, we test protection against avian flu by using H5N1-derived rHA and GLA-SE, a two-part adjuvant system containing glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant (GLA), a formulated synthetic Toll-like receptor 4 agonist, and a stable emulsion (SE) of oil in water, which is similar to the best-in-class adjuvants being developed for pandemic flu. Notably, a single submicrogram dose of rH5 adjuvanted with GLA-SE protects mice and ferrets against a high titer challenge with H5N1 virus. GLA-SE, relative to emulsion alone, accelerated induction of the primary immune response and broadened its durability against heterosubtypic H5N1 virus challenge. Mechanistically, GLA-SE augments protection via induction of a Th1-mediated antibody response. Innate signaling pathways that amplify priming of Th1 CD4 T cells will likely improve vaccine performance against future outbreaks of lethal pandemic flu."},"23092856":{"title":"Kinetic analysis and evaluation of the mechanisms involved in the resolution of experimental nontypeable Haemophilus influenzae-induced otitis media after transcutaneous immunization.","abstract":"Transcutaneous immunization (TCI) is a simple and needle-free method with which to induce protective immune responses. Using a chinchilla model of nontypeable Haemophilus influenzae (NTHI)-induced otitis media (OM), we examined the efficacy afforded by TCI with a novel chimeric immunogen called 'chimV4' which targets two critical adhesins expressed by NTHI, outer membrane protein P5 and the majority subunit of NTHI Type IV pilus, PilA. Experimental OM was first established in cohorts of animals, and then TCI performed via a therapeutic immunization regime by rubbing vaccine formulations on hydrated pinnae. The kinetics of resolution of established experimental disease was evaluated by clinically-relevant assessments of OM, bacterial culture of planktonic and adherent NTHI within the middle ear and gross examination of the relative amount of NTHI mucosal biofilms within the middle ear space. Within seven days after primary TCI, a significant reduction in the signs of OM, significantly fewer NTHI adherent to the middle ear mucosa and significant resolution of mucosal biofilms was detected in animals that received chimV4+ the adjuvant LT(R192G-L211A), compared to animals administered LT(R192G-L211A) alone or saline by TCI (p<0.05) with eradication of NTHI within an additional seven days. The mechanism for rapid disease resolution involved efflux of activated dermal dendritic cells from the pinnae after TCI, secretion of factors chemotactic for CD4(+) T-cells, induction of polyfunctional IFNγ- and IL-17-producing CD4(+) T-cells and secretion of host defense peptide within the middle ear. These data support TCI as a therapeutic intervention against experimental NTHI-induced OM and begin to elucidate the host response to immunization by this noninvasive regimen."},"23099886":{"title":"CCL19 as an adjuvant for intradermal gene gun immunization in a Her2/neu mouse tumor model: improved vaccine efficacy and a role for B cells as APC.","abstract":"The aim of this study was to evaluate the efficacy of the chemokine CCL19 (ELC) as an adjuvant for intradermal gene gun delivery of Her2/neu DNA and to investigate the role of B cells in CCL19-mediated enhancement of immune responses. Balb/c mice were immunized intramuscularly (i.m.) on days 1 and 15 with plasmid DNA (pDNA) (100 μg DNA) or intradermally (i.d.) by gene gun delivery (1-2 μg DNA). Administration of pDNA encoding Her2/neu (pDNA(Her2/neu) was compared with pDNA(Her2/neu) plus pDNA(CCL19), pDNA(CCL19), mock vector or uncoated gold particles/phosphate-buffered saline (PBS). Tumor challenge was performed subcutaneously on day 25 with syngeneic Her2/neu(+) tumor cells (D2F2/E2). Intradermal immunization by gene gun led to an enhancement of tumor protection by the DNA vaccine as compared with i.m. immunization. The protective effect of the vaccine was further enhanced by coadministration of pDNA(CCL19) both after i.m. and i.d. immunization. Tumor protection was associated with Her2/neu-specific T cell and humoral immune responses. Experiments in B-cell-deficient μMT mice showed that B cells are crucial for CCL19-mediated enhancement of tumor rejection, most likely as antigen-presenting B cells. DNA vaccines against Her2/neu may play a future role in the treatment of Her2/neu-positive breast cancer patients in a clinical situation of minimal residual disease."},"23227156":{"title":"MDA5 can be exploited as efficacious genetic adjuvant for DNA vaccination against lethal H5N1 influenza virus infection in chickens.","abstract":"Chickens lack the retinoic acid-inducible gene I (RIG-I) and sense avian influenza virus (AIV) infections by means of the melanoma differentiation-associated gene 5 product (chMDA5). Plasmid-driven expression of the N-terminal half of chMDA5 containing the caspase activation and recruitment domains [chMDA5(1-483)] triggers interferon-β responses in chicken cells. We hypothesized that mimicking virus infection by chMDA5(1-483) expression may enhance vaccine-induced adaptive immunity. In order to test this, the potential genetic adjuvant properties of chMDA5(1-483) were evaluated in vivo in combination with a suboptimal quantity of a plasmid DNA vaccine expressing haemagglutinin (HA) of H5N1 AIV. Co-administration of the HA plasmid with plasmid DNA for chMDA5(1-483) expression resulted in approximately 10-fold higher HA-specific antibody responses than injection of the HA plasmid mixed with empty vector DNA as control. Accordingly, compared with HA DNA vaccination alone, the chMDA5(1-483)-adjuvanted HA DNA vaccine mediated enhanced protection against a lethal H5N1 challenge infection in chickens, with reduced clinical signs and cloacal virus shedding. These data demonstrate that innate immune activation by expression of signaling domains of RIG-I-like receptors can be exploited to enhance vaccine efficacy."},"23228811":{"title":"Development and pre-clinical assessment of a 73 kD chimeric fusion protein as a defined sub-unit vaccine for leprosy.","abstract":"Despite the advances toward the elimination of leprosy through widespread provision of multi-drug therapy to registered patients over the last 2 decades, new case detection rates have stabilized and leprosy remains endemic in a number of localized regions. A vaccine could overcome the inherent limitations of the drug treatment program by providing protection in individuals who are not already harboring the Mycobacterium leprae bacilli at the time of administration and effectively interrupt the transmission cycle over a wider timespan. In this report we present data validating the production of 73f, a chimeric fusion protein incorporating the M. leprae antigens ML2028, ML2346 and ML2044. The 73f protein was recognized by IgG in multibacillary (MB) leprosy patient sera and stimulated IFNγ production within whole blood assays of paucibacillary (PB) leprosy patient and healthy household contacts of MB patients (HHC). When formulated with a TLR4L-containing adjuvant (GLA-SE), 73f stimulated a strong and pluripotent Th1 response that inhibited M. leprae-induced inflammation in mice. We are using these data to develop new vaccine initiatives for the continued and long-term control of leprosy."},"23229068":{"title":"SLC gene-modified dendritic cells mediate T cell-dependent anti-gastric cancer immune responses in vitro.","abstract":"Dendritic cells (DCs) are potent professional antigen-presenting cells (APCs) with the ability to prime naïve T cells, and play an important role in the initiation and regulation of immune responses. In this study, we constructed a recombinant adenovirus carrying the SLC gene (Ad-SLC), and detected the biological effects of Ad-SLC-modified DCs as an adjuvant for the initiation of gastric cancer immune responses. Human DCs were transfected with Ad-SLC and the recombinant adenovirus carrying the β-galactosidase gene, Ad-LacZ, respectively. Modified DCs were pulsed with the cell lysate antigen of SGC-7901 cells (a type of gastric cancer cell line) and co-cultured with autologous T cells. The T cells were harvested and incubated with SGC-7901 cells and the cytotoxic function of the T cells was detected. Based on the data, the expression of mature DC phenotypes CD83 and CCR7 was upregulated after transfection with Ad-SLC and the chemotaxis function of DCs was augmented after transfection with Ad-SLC. Moreover, the expression of RANTES in DCs was upregulated by Ad-SLC transfection, while expression levels of IL-12p70 and IL-10 were not significantly altered. When co-cultured with autologous T cells, DCs modified with the SLC gene and pulsed with SGC-7901 cell lysates significantly promoted the proliferation of autologous T cells and induced Th1 differentiation, and displayed a strong cytotoxicity to SGC-7901 cells. In conclusion, Ad-SLC promoted DC maturation, enhancing the ability of DCs for T-cell chemotaxis and T-cell stimulation, and induced specific anti-gastric cancer cellular immunity. Recombinant Ad-SLC-modified DCs may be used as an adjuvant to induce an effective anti-gastric cancer immune response."},"23306367":{"title":"A novel hepatitis B vaccine containing Advax™, a polysaccharide adjuvant derived from delta inulin, induces robust humoral and cellular immunity with minimal reactogenicity in preclinical testing.","abstract":"Although current HBV vaccines have an outstanding record of safety and efficacy, reduced immunogenicity is a problem in those of older age, or having renal impairment or diabetes mellitus. In this study, we tested the ability of Advax™ adjuvant, a novel polysaccharide adjuvant based on delta inulin, to enhance the immunogenicity of hepatitis B surface antigen (HBs) in mice and guinea pigs by comparison to the traditional alum adjuvant. Advax™ provided antigen-sparing, significantly enhanced both anti-HBs antibody titers, and anti-HBs CD4 and CD8 T-cells, with increases in Th1, Th2 and Th17 cytokine responses. Unlike alum, the adjuvant effect of Advax™ was seen even when injected 24h before the HBs antigen. Advax™ adjuvant similarly enhanced humoral and cellular immune responses in guinea pigs to a third generation preS-HBs antigen. Advax™ adjuvant when combined with HBs antigen could provide enhanced protection over current generation HBV vaccines for immunization of low responder populations."},"23308247":{"title":"The Mincle-activating adjuvant TDB induces MyD88-dependent Th1 and Th17 responses through IL-1R signaling.","abstract":"Successful vaccination against intracellular pathogens requires the generation of cellular immune responses. Trehalose-6,6-dibehenate (TDB), the synthetic analog of the mycobacterial cord factor trehalose-6,6-dimycolate (TDM), is a potent adjuvant inducing strong Th1 and Th17 immune responses. We previously identified the C-type lectin Mincle as receptor for these glycolipids that triggers the FcRγ-Syk-Card9 pathway for APC activation and adjuvanticity. Interestingly, in vivo data revealed that the adjuvant effect was not solely Mincle-dependent but also required MyD88. Therefore, we dissected which MyD88-dependent pathways are essential for successful immunization with a tuberculosis subunit vaccine. We show here that antigen-specific Th1/Th17 immune responses required IL-1 receptor-mediated signals independent of IL-18 and IL-33-signaling. ASC-deficient mice had impaired IL-17 but intact IFNγ responses, indicating partial independence of TDB adjuvanticity from inflammasome activation. Our data suggest that the glycolipid adjuvant TDB triggers Mincle-dependent IL-1 production to induce MyD88-dependent Th1/Th17 responses in vivo."},"23388724":{"title":"JE-ADVAX vaccine protection against Japanese encephalitis virus mediated by memory B cells in the absence of CD8(+) T cells and pre-exposure neutralizing antibody.","abstract":"JE-ADVAX is a new, delta inulin-adjuvanted, Japanese encephalitis (JE) candidate vaccine with a strong safety profile and potent immunogenicity that confers efficient immune protection not only against JE virus but also against related neurotropic flaviviruses such as West Nile virus. In this study, we investigated the immunological mechanism of protection by JE-ADVAX vaccine using knockout mice deficient in B cells or CD8(+) T cells and poor persistence of neutralizing antibody or by adoptive transfer of immune splenocyte subpopulations. We show that memory B cells induced by JE-ADVAX provide long-lived protection against JE even in the absence of detectable pre-exposure serum neutralizing antibodies and without the requirement of CD8(+) T cells. Upon virus encounter, these vaccine-induced memory B cells were rapidly triggered to produce neutralizing antibodies that then protected immunized mice from morbidity and mortality. The findings suggest that the extent of the B-cell memory compartment might be a better immunological correlate for clinical efficacy of JE vaccines than the currently recommended measure of serum neutralizing antibody. This may explain the paradox where JE protection is observed in some subjects even in the absence of detectable serum neutralizing antibody. Our investigation also established the suitability of a novel flavivirus challenge model (β(2)-microglobulin-knockout mice) for studies of the role of B-cell memory responses in vaccine protection."},"23541621":{"title":"Development and preclinical evaluation of safety and immunogenicity of an oral ETEC vaccine containing inactivated E. coli bacteria overexpressing colonization factors CFA/I, CS3, CS5 and CS6 combined with a hybrid LT/CT B subunit antigen, administered alone and together with dmLT adjuvant.","abstract":"A first-generation oral inactivated whole-cell enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli (ETEC) vaccine, comprising formalin-killed ETEC bacteria expressing different colonization factor (CF) antigens combined with cholera toxin B subunit (CTB), when tested in phase III studies did not significantly reduce overall (generally mild) ETEC diarrhea in travelers or children although it reduced more severe ETEC diarrhea in travelers by almost 80%. We have now developed a novel more immunogenic ETEC vaccine based on recombinant non-toxigenic E. coli strains engineered to express increased amounts of CF antigens, including CS6 as well as an ETEC-based B subunit protein (LCTBA), and the optional combination with a nontoxic double-mutant heat-labile toxin (LT) molecule (dmLT) as an adjuvant. Two test vaccines were prepared under GMP: (1) A prototype E. coli CFA/I-only formalin-killed whole-cell+LCTBA vaccine, and (2) A \"complete\" inactivated multivalent ETEC-CF (CFA/I, CS3, CS5 and CS6 antigens) whole-cell+LCTBA vaccine. These vaccines, when given intragastrically alone or together with dmLT in mice, were well tolerated and induced strong intestinal-mucosal IgA antibody responses as well as serum IgG and IgA responses to each of the vaccine CF antigens as well as to LT B subunit (LTB). Both mucosal and serum responses were further enhanced (adjuvanted) when the vaccines were co-administered with dmLT. We conclude that the new multivalent oral ETEC vaccine, both alone and especially in combination with the dmLT adjuvant, shows great promise for further testing in humans."},"23566800":{"title":"The immunotoxicity of graphene oxides and the effect of PVP-coating.","abstract":"Graphene oxide (GO) immunotoxicity is not clarified well up to date. Herein we reported the effects of GOs with and without polyvinylpyrrolidone (PVP) coating on human immune cells such as dendritic cells (DCs), T lymphocytes and macrophages. Human immune cells such as dendritic cells (DCs), T lymphocytes and macrophages were isolated from health donated bloods, PVP-coating GO (PVP-GO) exhibited lower immunogenicity compared with pure GO on the aspect of inducing differentiation and maturation of dendritic cells (DCs), the levels of secreted TNF-α and IL-1β had no obvious difference between two groups, yet the secretion of IL-6 remained in PVP-coating GO group. In addition, PVP-coating GO delayed significantly the apoptotic process of T lymphocytes, at the same time, and exhibited anti-phagocytosis ability against macrophages and markedly enhanced the physiological activity of macrophages. In conclusion, PVP-coating GO possesses good immunological biocompatibility and immunoenhancement effects in vitro, and is likely to be an available candidate of immunoadjuvant in the future."},"23582951":{"title":"Green tea polyphenol epigallocatechin-3-gallate (EGCG) as adjuvant in cancer therapy.","abstract":"Green tea catechins, especially epigallocatechin-3-gallate (EGCG), have been associated with cancer prevention and treatment. This has resulted in an increased number of studies evaluating the effects derived from the use of this compound in combination with chemo/radiotherapy. This review aims at compiling latest literature on this subject. Keywords including EGCG, cancer, chemotherapy, radiotherapy and side effects, were searched using PubMed and ScienceDirect databases to identify, analyze, and summarize the research literature on this topic. Most of the studies on this subject up to date are preclinical. Relevance of the findings, impact factor, and date of publication were critical parameters for the studies to be included in the review. Additive and synergistic effects of EGCG when combined with conventional cancer therapies have been proposed, and its anti-inflammatory and antioxidant activities have been related to amelioration of cancer therapy side effects. However, antagonistic interactions with certain anticancer drugs might limit its clinical use. The use of EGCG could enhance the effect of conventional cancer therapies through additive or synergistic effects as well as through amelioration of deleterious side effects. Further research, especially at the clinical level, is needed to ascertain the potential role of EGCG as adjuvant in cancer therapy."},"23595760":{"title":"MER5101, a novel Aβ1-15:DT conjugate vaccine, generates a robust anti-Aβ antibody response and attenuates Aβ pathology and cognitive deficits in APPswe/PS1ΔE9 transgenic mice.","abstract":"Active amyloid-β (Aβ) immunotherapy is under investigation to prevent or treat early Alzheimer's disease (AD). In 2002, a Phase II clinical trial (AN1792) was halted due to meningoencephalitis in ∼6% of the AD patients, possibly caused by a T-cell-mediated immunological response. Thus, generating a vaccine that safely generates high anti-Aβ antibody levels in the elderly is required. In this study, MER5101, a novel conjugate of Aβ1-15 peptide (a B-cell epitope fragment) conjugated to an immunogenic carrier protein, diphtheria toxoid (DT), and formulated in a nanoparticular emulsion-based adjuvant, was administered to 10-month-old APPswe/PS1ΔE9 transgenic (Tg) and wild-type (Wt) mice. High anti-Aβ antibody levels were observed in both vaccinated APPswe/PS1ΔE9 Tg and Wt mice. Antibody isotypes were mainly IgG1 and IgG2b, suggesting a Th2-biased response. Restimulation of splenocytes with the Aβ1-15:DT conjugate resulted in a strong proliferative response, whereas proliferation was absent after restimulation with Aβ1-15 or Aβ1-40/42 peptides, indicating a cellular immune response against DT while avoiding an Aβ-specific T-cell response. Moreover, significant reductions in cerebral Aβ plaque burden, accompanied by attenuated microglial activation and increased synaptic density, were observed in MER5101-vaccinated APPswe/PS1ΔE9 Tg mice compared with Tg adjuvant controls. Last, MER5101-immunized APPswe/PS1ΔE9 Tg mice showed improvement of cognitive deficits in both contextual fear conditioning and the Morris water maze. Our novel, highly immunogenic Aβ conjugate vaccine, MER5101, shows promise for improving Aβ vaccine safety and efficacy and therefore, may be useful for preventing and/or treating early AD."},"23602766":{"title":"C-type lectin MCL is an FcRγ-coupled receptor that mediates the adjuvanticity of mycobacterial cord factor.","abstract":"Cord factor, also called trehalose-6,6'-dimycolate (TDM), is a potent mycobacterial adjuvant. We herein report that the C-type lectin MCL (also called Clec4d) is a TDM receptor that is likely to arise from gene duplication of Mincle (also called Clec4e). Mincle is known to be an inducible receptor recognizing TDM, whereas MCL was constitutively expressed in myeloid cells. To examine the contribution of MCL in response to TDM adjuvant, we generated MCL-deficient mice. TDM promoted innate immune responses, such as granuloma formation, which was severely impaired in MCL-deficient mice. TDM-induced acquired immune responses, such as experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), was almost completely dependent on MCL, but not Mincle. Furthermore, by generating Clec4e(gfp) reporter mice, we found that MCL was also crucial for driving Mincle induction upon TDM stimulation. These results suggest that MCL is an FcRγ-coupled activating receptor that mediates the adjuvanticity of TDM."},"23624057":{"title":"HIV/SIV DNA vaccine combined with protein in a co-immunization protocol elicits highest humoral responses to envelope in mice and macaques.","abstract":"Vaccination with HIV/SIV DNAs elicits potent T-cell responses. To improve humoral immune responses, we combined DNA and protein in a co-immunization protocol using in vivo electroporation in mice and macaques. DNA&protein co-immunization induced higher antibody responses than DNA or protein alone, or DNA prime/protein boost in mice. DNA&protein co-immunization induced similar levels of cellular responses as those obtained by DNA only vaccination. The inclusion of SIV or HIV Env gp120 protein did not impair the development of cellular immune responses elicited by DNA present in the vaccine regimen. In macaques, the DNA&protein co-immunization regimen also elicited higher levels of humoral responses with broader cross-neutralizing activity. Despite the improved immunogenicity of DNA&protein co-immunization, the protein formulation with the EM-005 (GLA-SE) adjuvant further increased the anti-Env humoral responses. Dissecting the contribution of EM-005, we found that its administration upregulated the expression of co-stimulatory molecules and stimulated cytokine production, especially IL-6, by dendritic cells in vivo. These terminally differentiated, mature, dendritic cells possibly promote higher levels of humoral responses, supporting the inclusion of the EM-005 adjuvant with the vaccine. Thus, DNA&protein co-immunization is a promising strategy to improve the rapidity of development, magnitude and potency of the humoral immune responses."},"23715572":{"title":"Selection of immunostimulant AS15 for active immunization with MAGE-A3 protein: results of a randomized phase II study of the European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer Melanoma Group in Metastatic Melanoma.","abstract":"Active immunization against the tumor-specific MAGE-A3 antigen is followed by a few but impressive and durable clinical responses. This randomized phase II trial evaluated two different immunostimulants combined with the MAGE-A3 protein to investigate whether a more robust and persistent immune response could be associated with increased clinical benefit. Patients with MAGE-A3-positive stage III or IV M1a melanoma were randomly assigned to receive the MAGE-A3 protein combined either with AS02B or with AS15 immunostimulant. Clinical end points were toxicity and rates of objective clinical responses, progression-free survival (PFS), and overall survival (OS). Seventy-five patients were treated, with 36 eligible patients per arm. Both treatments were well tolerated. In the AS15 arm, four objective responses were observed (three complete responses and one partial response) versus one partial response in the AS02B arm. In the AS15 and AS02B arms, the PFS rates after 6 months were 25% and 14%, respectively; and the median OS times were 33 months and 19.9 months, respectively, with a median observation period of 48 months. Antibodies against MAGE-A3, found in all patients, showed three-fold higher titers in the AS15 arm. The anti-MAGE-A3 cellular response was also more pronounced in the AS15 arm. In the MAGE-A3+AS15 arm, clinical activity was higher and the immune response more robust. Therefore, the AS15 immunostimulant was selected for combination with the MAGE-A3 protein in phase III trials."},"23740922":{"title":"A single dose of a DNA vaccine encoding apa coencapsulated with 6,6'-trehalose dimycolate in microspheres confers long-term protection against tuberculosis in Mycobacterium bovis BCG-primed mice.","abstract":"Mycobacterium bovis BCG prime DNA (Mycobacterium tuberculosis genes)-booster vaccinations have been shown to induce greater protection against tuberculosis (TB) than BCG alone. This heterologous prime-boost strategy is perhaps the most realistic vaccination for the future of TB infection control, especially in countries where TB is endemic. Moreover, a prime-boost regimen using biodegradable microspheres seems to be a promising immunization to stimulate a long-lasting immune response. The alanine proline antigen (Apa) is a highly immunogenic glycoprotein secreted by M. tuberculosis. This study investigated the immune protection of Apa DNA vaccine against intratracheal M. tuberculosis challenge in mice on the basis of a heterologous prime-boost regimen. BALB/c mice were subcutaneously primed with BCG and intramuscularly boosted with a single dose of plasmid carrying apa and 6,6'-trehalose dimycolate (TDM) adjuvant, coencapsulated in microspheres (BCG-APA), and were evaluated 30 and 70 days after challenge. This prime-boost strategy (BCG-APA) resulted in a significant reduction in the bacterial load in the lungs, thus leading to better preservation of the lung parenchyma, 70 days postinfection compared to BCG vaccinated mice. The profound effect of this heterologous prime-boost regimen in the experimental model supports its development as a feasible strategy for prevention of TB."},"23864620":{"title":"An inactivated cell culture Japanese encephalitis vaccine (JE-ADVAX) formulated with delta inulin adjuvant provides robust heterologous protection against West Nile encephalitis via cross-protective memory B cells and neutralizing antibody.","abstract":"West Nile virus (WNV), currently the cause of a serious U.S. epidemic, is a mosquito-borne flavivirus and member of the Japanese encephalitis (JE) serocomplex. There is currently no approved human WNV vaccine, and treatment options remain limited, resulting in significant mortality and morbidity from human infection. Given the availability of approved human JE vaccines, this study asked whether the JE-ADVAX vaccine, which contains an inactivated cell culture JE virus antigen formulated with Advax delta inulin adjuvant, could provide heterologous protection against WNV infection in wild-type and β2-microglobulin-deficient (β2m(-/-)) murine models. Mice immunized twice or even once with JE-ADVAX were protected against lethal WNV challenge even when mice had low or absent serum cross-neutralizing WNV titers prior to challenge. Similarly, β2m(-/-) mice immunized with JE-ADVAX were protected against lethal WNV challenge in the absence of CD8(+) T cells and prechallenge WNV antibody titers. Protection against WNV could be adoptively transferred to naive mice by memory B cells from JE-ADVAX-immunized animals. Hence, in addition to increasing serum cross-neutralizing antibody titers, JE-ADVAX induced a memory B-cell population able to provide heterologous protection against WNV challenge. Heterologous protection was reduced when JE vaccine antigen was administered alone without Advax, confirming the importance of the adjuvant to induction of cross-protective immunity. In the absence of an approved human WNV vaccine, JE-ADVAX could provide an alternative approach for control of a major human WNV epidemic."},"23873630":{"title":"The physical stability of the recombinant tuberculosis fusion antigens h1 and h56.","abstract":"The recombinant fusion proteins hybrid 1 [H1 (Ag85B-ESAT-6)] and hybrid 56 [H56 (Ag85B-ESAT-6-Rv2660c)] derived from Mycobacterium tuberculosis are promising antigens for subunit vaccines against tuberculosis. Both antigens are early batches of antigens to be enrolled in human clinical trials and it is therefore important to characterize their conformational stability in solution as well as upon interaction with adjuvants. In this study, the physical stability of the two antigens was characterized using a number of biophysical techniques. Dynamic light scattering and sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis analyses demonstrated that both antigens exist as a distribution of multimeric states under nonstressed conditions. Their conformational stability was monitored as a function of pH and temperature and visualized in three-index empirical phase diagrams. Both antigens showed a gradual loss of secondary as well as tertiary structure as a function of temperature, with no cooperative transitions observed. Preformulation studies with the Th1-inducing cationic adjuvant CAF01 showed that the antigens were almost completely surface adsorbed. Upon adsorption, the liposome size increased; however, the physical stabilities of the bound and the unbound antigens were comparable. This study provides important information about the biophysical properties of H1 and H56 and highlights the analytical challenges of characterizing complex vaccine formulations."},"23904160":{"title":"Protection against tuberculosis with homologous or heterologous protein/vector vaccine approaches is not dependent on CD8+ T cells.","abstract":"Considerable effort has been directed to develop Mycobacterium tuberculosis vaccines to boost bacille Calmette-Guérin or for those who cannot be immunized with bacille Calmette-Guérin. We hypothesized that CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cell responses with a heterologous prime/boost vaccine approach could induce long-lived vaccine efficacy against M. tuberculosis in C57BL/6 mice. We produced an adenovirus vector expressing ID93 (Ad5-ID93) for induction of CD8 T cells to use with our candidate tuberculosis vaccine, ID93/glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant (GLA)-stable emulsion (SE), which induces potent Th1 CD4 T cells. Ad5-ID93 generates ID93-specific CD8(+) T cell responses and induces protection against M. tuberculosis. When Ad5-ID93 is administered in a prime-boost strategy with ID93/GLA-SE, both CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells are generated and provide protection against M. tuberculosis. In a MHC class I-deficient mouse model, all groups including the Ad5-ID93 group elicited an Ag-specific CD4(+) T cell response and significantly fewer Ag-specific CD8(+) T cells, but were still protected against M. tuberculosis, suggesting that CD4(+) Th1 T cells could compensate for the loss of CD8(+) T cells. Lastly, the order of the heterologous immunizations was critical. Long-lived vaccine protection was observed only when Ad5-ID93 was given as the boost following an ID93/GLA-SE prime. The homologous ID93/GLA-SE prime/boost regimen also induced long-lived protection. One of the correlates of protection between these two approaches was an increase in the total number of ID93-specific IFN-γ-producing CD4(+) T cells 6 mo following the last immunization. Our findings provide insight into the development of vaccines not only for tuberculosis, but other diseases requiring T cell immunity."},"23928465":{"title":"Enhancement of antigen-specific CD8 T cell responses by co-delivery of Fc-fused CXCL11.","abstract":"Chemokines have been known to play an important role in eliciting adaptive immune responses by, selectively attracting the innate cellular components to the site of antigen presentation. In this study, we demonstrated that all three CXCR3 ligands, CXCL9, CXCL10, and CXCL11, could act as a strong, genetic adjuvant. Among them, CXCL11 increased vaccine antigen-specific CD8 T cells, including, several cytokine secretions (IFN-γ and TNF-α) to a greater degree than the other two CXCR3 ligands. Fc-fusion of CXCL11 (CXCL11-Fc) induced similar but slightly higher CD8 T cell response, which, appeared to be antigen- (ovalbumin (OVA) vs. human papillomavirus 16 (HPV16) E7) and vaccine, type- (adenovirus vs. DNA vaccine) independent. In addition, the adjuvant effect of CXCL11-Fc was, further confirmed by suppressing tumor growth and extension of survival rates in a therapeutic tumor, model, which was correlated with enhanced antigen-specific CD8 T cell responses. Interestingly, the, enhanced antigen-specific CD8 T cell responses by co-delivery of CXCL11-Fc were associated with CD8, T cell proliferation, followed by increased total and effector memory T cell frequencies. Taken together, our findings provide a novel role of CXCL11 as a strong genetic adjuvant which might be used to, increase antigen-specific CD8 T cell immunity elicited by vaccination."},"23954378":{"title":"Antigenicity and immunogenicity of a novel chimeric peptide antigen based on the P. vivax circumsporozoite protein.","abstract":"Plasmodium vivax circumsporozoite (PvCS) protein is a major sporozoite surface antigen involved in parasite invasion of hepatocytes and is currently being considered as vaccine candidate. PvCS contains a dimorphic central repetitive fragment flanked by conserved regions that contain functional domains. We have developed a chimeric 137-mer synthetic polypeptide (PvCS-NRC) that includes the conserved region I and region II-plus and the two natural repeat variants known as VK210 and VK247. The antigenicity of PvCS-NRC was tested using human sera from PNG and Colombia endemic areas and its immunogenicity was confirmed in mice with different genetic backgrounds, the polypeptide formulated either in Alum or GLA-SE adjuvants was assessed in inbred C3H, CB6F1 and outbred ICR mice, whereas a formulation in Montanide ISA51 was tested in C3H mice. Antigenicity studies indicated that the chimeric peptide is recognized by a high proportion (60-70%) of residents of malaria-endemic areas. Peptides formulated with either GLA-SE or Montanide ISA51 adjuvants induced stronger antibody responses as compared with the Alum formulation. Sera from immunized mice as well as antigen-specific affinity purified human IgG antibodies reacted with sporozoite preparations in immunofluorescence and Western blot assays, and displayed strong in vitro inhibition of sporozoite invasion (ISI) into hepatoma cells. The polypeptide was recognized at high prevalence when tested against naturally induced human antibodies and was able to induce significant immunogenicity in mice. Additionally, specific antibodies were able to recognize sporozoites and were able to block sporozoite invasion in vitro. Further evaluation of this chimeric protein construct in preclinical phase e.g. in Aotus monkeys in order to assess the humoral and cellular immune responses as well as protective efficacy against parasite challenge of the vaccine candidate must be conducted."},"23989956":{"title":"Pivotal roles of cGAS-cGAMP signaling in antiviral defense and immune adjuvant effects.","abstract":"Invasion of microbial DNA into the cytoplasm of animal cells triggers a cascade of host immune reactions that help clear the infection; however, self DNA in the cytoplasm can cause autoimmune diseases. Biochemical approaches led to the identification of cyclic guanosine monophosphate-adenosine monophosphate (cGAMP) synthase (cGAS) as a cytosolic DNA sensor that triggers innate immune responses. Here, we show that cells from cGAS-deficient (cGas(-/-)) mice, including fibroblasts, macrophages, and dendritic cells, failed to produce type I interferons and other cytokines in response to DNA transfection or DNA virus infection. cGas(-/-) mice were more susceptible to lethal infection with herpes simplex virus 1 (HSV1) than wild-type mice. We also show that cGAMP is an adjuvant that boosts antigen-specific T cell activation and antibody production in mice."},"24023642":{"title":"A novel CXCL10-based GPI-anchored fusion protein as adjuvant in NK-based tumor therapy.","abstract":"Cellular therapy is a promising therapeutic strategy for malignant diseases. The efficacy of this therapy can be limited by poor infiltration of the tumor by immune effector cells. In particular, NK cell infiltration is often reduced relative to T cells. A novel class of fusion proteins was designed to enhance the recruitment of specific leukocyte subsets based on their expression of a given chemokine receptor. The proteins are composed of an N-terminal chemokine head, the mucin domain taken from the membrane-anchored chemokine CX3CL1, and a C-terminal glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) membrane anchor replacing the normal transmembrane domain allowing integration of the proteins into cell membranes when injected into a solid tumor. The mucin domain in conjunction with the chemokine head acts to specifically recruit leukocytes expressing the corresponding chemokine receptor. A fusion protein comprising a CXCL10 chemokine head (CXCL10-mucin-GPI) was used for proof of concept for this approach and expressed constitutively in Chinese Hamster Ovary cells. FPLC was used to purify proteins. The recombinant proteins efficiently integrated into cell membranes in a process dependent upon the GPI anchor and were able to activate the CXCR3 receptor on lymphocytes. Endothelial cells incubated with CXCL10-mucin-GPI efficiently recruited NK cells in vitro under conditions of physiologic flow, which was shown to be dependent on the presence of the mucin domain. Experiments conducted in vivo using established tumors in mice suggested a positive effect of CXCL10-mucin-GPI on the recruitment of NK cells. The results suggest enhanced recruitment of NK cells by CXCL10-mucin-GPI. This class of fusion proteins represents a novel adjuvant in cellular immunotherapy. The underlying concept of a chemokine head fused to the mucin domain and a GPI anchor signal sequence may be expanded into a broader family of reagents that will allow targeted recruitment of cells in various settings."},"24049109":{"title":"Safety and immunogenicity of a single oral dose of recombinant double mutant heat-labile toxin derived from enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli.","abstract":"Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli (ETEC) is a primary cause of traveler's diarrhea for which there is no licensed vaccine. This phase 1 trial determined the safety and immunogenicity of a recombinantly produced double mutant heat-labile enterotoxin (dmLT) of ETEC. It was administered as a single oral dose of dmLT in escalating doses of 5 μg, 25 μg, 50 μg, and 100 μg, followed by a 72-h inpatient observation, outpatient visits at 8, 14, and 28 days, and telephone calls at 2 and 6 months postvaccination. Safety was assessed by frequency of adverse events, and immune responses determined after immunization included dmLT-specific serum IgA and IgG, fecal IgA, antibody-secreting cells (ASC), and antibodies in lymphocyte supernatant (ALS) responses. All doses were well tolerated by the 36 healthy adults enrolled. Immune responses were limited in the 5- and 25-μg dose recipients. The 50-μg dose recipients trended toward stronger responses than the 100-μg dose recipients by serum IgA (67% versus 33%, P = 0.22), serum IgG (58% versus 33%, P = 0.41), and fecal IgA (58% versus 33%, P = 0.41). By day 14 postvaccination, there were significantly more positive responders (≥4-fold increase from baseline) among the 50- versus 100-μg dose recipients for serum IgA (P = 0.036) but not serum IgG (P = 0.21). In conclusion, a single oral dose of dmLT was well tolerated and immunogenic, with immune responses plateauing at the 50-μg dose. (This clinical trial is registered at www.clinicaltrials.gov, registration number NCT01147445.)."},"24099876":{"title":"Highly immunostimulatory RNA derived from a Sendai virus defective viral genome.","abstract":"Defective viral genomes (DVGs) are generated during virus replication. DVGs bearing complementary ends are strong inducers of dendritic cell (DC) maturation and of the expression of antiviral and pro-inflammatory cytokines by triggering signaling of the RIG-I family of intracellular pattern recognition receptors. Our data show that DCs stimulated with virus containing DVGs have an enhanced ability to activate human T cells and can induce adaptive immunity in mice. In addition, we describe the generation of a short Sendai virus (SeV)-derived DVG RNA (DVG-324) that maintains strong immunostimulatory activity in vitro and in vivo. DVG-324 induced high levels of Ifnb expression when transfected into cells and triggered fast expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines and mobilization of dendritic cells when injected into the footpad of mice. Importantly, DVG-324 enhanced the production of antibodies to a prototypic vaccine after a single intramuscular immunization in mice. Notably, the pro-inflammatory cytokine profile induced by DVG-324 was different from that induced by poly I:C, the only viral RNA analog currently used as an immunostimulant in vivo, suggesting a distinct mechanism of action. SeV-derived oligonucleotides represent novel alternatives to be harnessed as potent adjuvants for vaccination."},"24130558":{"title":"Immunostimulation by synthetic lipopeptide-based vaccine candidates: structure-activity relationships.","abstract":"Peptide-based vaccines offer several advantages over conventional whole organism or protein approaches by offering improved purity and specificity in inducing immune response. However, peptides alone are generally non-immunogenic. Concerns remain about the toxicity of adjuvants which are critical for immunogenicity of synthetic peptides. The use of lipopeptides in peptide vaccines is currently under intensive investigation because potent immune responses can be generated without the use of adjuvant (thus are self-adjuvanting). Several lipopeptides derived from microbial origin, and their synthetic versions or simpler fatty acid moieties impart this self-adjuvanting activity by signaling via Toll-like receptor 2 (TLR2). Engagement of this innate immune receptor on antigen-presenting cell leads to the initiation and development of potent immune responses. Therefore optimization of lipopeptides to enhance TLR2-mediated activation is a promising strategy for vaccine development. Considerable structure-activity relationships that determine TLR2 binding and consequent stimulation of innate immune responses have been investigated for a range of lipopeptides. In this mini review we address the development of lipopeptide vaccines, mechanism of TLR2 recognition, and immune activation. An overview is provided of the best studied lipopeptide vaccine systems."},"24135577":{"title":"Candida skin test reagent as a novel adjuvant for a human papillomavirus peptide-based therapeutic vaccine.","abstract":"A vaccine adjuvant that can effectively promote cell-mediated immunity is currently not available. Because of the ability of a Candida skin test reagent injection to induce common wart regression, our group is using it as a novel adjuvant in a clinical trial of a peptide-based human papillomavirus therapeutic vaccine. The goal of this current study was to investigate the mechanisms of how Candida enhances the vaccine immune responses. Maturation effects on Langerhans cells, capacity to proliferate T-cells, expression of cytokines and pattern recognition receptors by Langerhans cells, and ability to induce Th1, Th2, and Th17 responses were investigated in healthy subjects. The vaccine, human papillomavirus peptides with Candida, demonstrated partial maturation effects on Langerhans cells indicated by significantly up-regulated CD40 (p=0.00007) and CD80 (p<0.00001) levels, and showed T-cell proliferative capacity (p<0.00001) when presented by Langerhans cells in vitro. Interestingly, the maturation effects were due to the peptides while Candida was responsible for the T-cell proliferation. The cytokine profile (IL-1β, IL-6, IL-8, IL-10, IL-12p40, IL-23Ap19, IFN-γ and TNF-α) of Langerhans cells treated with the vaccine or Candida alone showed that IL-12p40 mRNA was most frequently induced, and IL-12p70 protein was detected in the supernatants. The presence of pattern recognition receptors known to associate with Candida albicans (DC-SIGN, dectin-1, dectin-2, galectin-3, mincle, mannose receptor, Toll-like receptors-1, 2, 4, 6 and 9) were demonstrated in all subjects. On the other hand, the induction of Th1 response demonstrated by IFN-γ secretion by CD4 cells stimulated with the vaccine or Candida pulsed Langerhans cells was demonstrated only in one subject. In summary, the Langerhans cell maturation effects of the vaccine were due to the peptides while the T-cell proliferative capacity was derived from Candida, and the most frequently induced cytokine was IL-12."},"24192551":{"title":"Innate immune protection against infectious diseases by pulmonary administration of a phospholipid-conjugated TLR7 ligand.","abstract":"Pulmonary administration of Toll-like receptor (TLR) ligands protects hosts from inhaled pathogens. However, systemic side effects induced by TLR stimulation limit clinical development. Here, a small-molecule TLR7 ligand conjugated with phospholipid, 1V270 (also designated TMX201), was tested for innate immune activation and its ability to prevent pulmonary infection in mice. We hypothesized that phospholipid conjugation would increase internalization by immune cells and localize the compound in the lungs, thus avoiding side effects due to systemic cytokine release. Pulmonary 1V270 administration increased innate cytokines and chemokines in bronchial alveolar lavage fluids, but neither caused systemic induction of cytokines nor B cell proliferation in distant lymphoid organs. 1V270 activated pulmonary CD11c+ dendritic cells, which migrated to local lymph nodes. However, there was minimal cell infiltration into the pulmonary parenchyma. Prophylactic administration of 1V270 significantly protected mice from lethal infection with Bacillus anthracis, Venezuelan equine encephalitis virus and H1N1 influenza virus. The maximum tolerated dose of 1V270 by pulmonary administration was 75 times the effective therapeutic dose. Therefore, pulmonary 1V270 treatment can protect the host from different infectious agents by stimulating local innate immune responses while exhibiting an excellent safety profile."},"24228233":{"title":"IL-18-based combinatorial adjuvants promote the intranodal production of CCL19 by NK cells and dendritic cells of cancer patients.","abstract":"The effective accumulation and interaction of mature dendritic cells (DCs) and naïve T cells within lymph nodes (LNs), which are driven by the CCR7-CCL19/CCL21 chemokine axis, are critical for the induction of adaptive T-cell immunity. Human natural killer (NK) cells activated by interleukin (IL)-18 exhibit a unique 'helper' activity in promoting productive DC-T cell interactions, inducing DC maturation and shifting DC-primed T-cell responses toward a TH1 polarization. Here, we demonstrate that such IL-18-activated 'helper' NK cells uniquely stimulate DCs to produce high levels of CCL19 through tumor necrosis factor α (TNFα) and interferon γ (IFNγ), a process that relies on secondary NK-cell activation by additional inflammatory signals including IFNα, IL-15, IL-12 and IL-2. DCs activated by helper NK cells not only promote the efficient CCR7-mediated recruitment of naïve CD8+ T cells, but also stimulate their expansion and expression of granzyme B. Using an ex vivo explant culture system based on LNs isolated from colorectal cancer patients, we found that CCL19 is upregulated in human tumor-associated lymphoid tissues treated with helper NK cell-stimulating factors. Our findings demonstrate the ability of 2 signal-activated helper NK cells to promote the production of the DC- and naïve/memory T cell-attracting chemokine CCL19 in LNs, and provide a rationale for the therapeutic application of IL-18-containing 'combinatorial adjuvants' to facilitate the induction of antitumor immune responses."},"24307739":{"title":"MPYS/STING-mediated TNF-α, not type I IFN, is essential for the mucosal adjuvant activity of (3'-5')-cyclic-di-guanosine-monophosphate in vivo.","abstract":"The bacterial second messenger (3'-5')-cyclic-di-guanosine-monophosphate (CDG) is a promising mucosal adjuvant candidate that activates balanced Th1/Th2/Th17 responses. We showed previously that CDG activates stimulator of IFN genes (STING)-dependent IFN-I production in vitro. However, it is unknown whether STING or IFN-I is required for the CDG adjuvant activity in vivo. In this study, we show that STING(-/-) mice (Tmem173(<tm1Camb>)) do not produce Ag-specific Abs or Th1/Th2/Th17 cytokines during CDG/Ag immunization. Intranasal administration of CDG did not induce TNF-α, IL-1β, IL-6, IL-12, or MCP-1 production in STING(-/-) mice. Surprisingly, we found that the cytokine and Ab responses were unaltered in CDG/Ag-immunized IFNAR(-/-) mice. Instead, we found that CDG activates STING-dependent, IFN-I-independent TNF-α production in vivo and in vitro. Furthermore, using a TNFR1(-/-) mouse, we demonstrate that TNF-α signaling is critical for CDG-induced Ag-specific Ab and Th1/Th2 cytokine production. This is distinct from STING-mediated DNA adjuvant activity, which requires IFN-I, but not TNF-α, production. Finally, we found that CDG activates STING-dependent, but IRF3 stimulation-independent, NF-κB signaling. Our results established an essential role for STING-mediated TNF-α production in the mucosal adjuvant activity of CDG in vivo and revealed a novel IFN-I stimulation-independent STING-NF-κB-TNF-α pathway."},"24342245":{"title":"Gamma ray sterilization of delta inulin adjuvant particles (Advax™) makes minor, partly reversible structural changes without affecting adjuvant activity.","abstract":"We earlier identified a developmental series of seven isoforms/polymorphs of microparticulate inulin by comparing non-covalent bonding strengths. Their pharmaceutical utility lies in the modulation of cellular immunity, exploited as vaccine adjuvants (Advax™) especially for delta inulin (DI). As such particles cannot be sterilized by filtration we explore the effect of (60)Co gamma radiation (GR) on inulin isoforms, particularly DI. Its adjuvant activity and overt physical properties were unaffected by normal GR sterilizing doses (up to 25kGy). Heating irradiated isoform suspensions near their critical dissolution temperature revealed increased solubility deduced to reflect a single lethal event in one component of a multi-component structure. Local oxidative effects of GR on DI were not found. The observed DI loss was almost halved by re-annealing at the critical temperature: surviving inulin chains apparently reassemble into smaller amounts of the original type of structure. Colorimetric tetrazolium assay revealed increases in reducing activity after GR of raw inulin powder, which yielded DI with normal physical properties but only 25% normal recovery yet 4× normal reducing ability, implying final retention of some GR-changed inulin chains. These findings suggest minimal inulin chain cleavage and confirm that GR may be a viable strategy for terminal sterilization of microparticulate inulin adjuvants."},"24346613":{"title":"Chitosan: a promising safe and immune-enhancing adjuvant for intranasal vaccines.","abstract":"The nasal route is attractive for the delivery of vaccines in that it not only offers an easy to use, non-invasive, needle-free alternative to more conventional parenteral injection, but it also creates an opportunity to elicit both systemic and (crucially) mucosal immune responses which may increase the capability of controlling pathogens at the site of entry. Immune responses to \"naked\" antigens are often modest and it is widely accepted that incorporation of an adjuvant is a prerequisite for the achievement of clinically effective nasal vaccines. Many existing adjuvants are sub-optimal or unsuitable because of local toxicity or poor enhancement of immunogenicity. Chitosan, particularly chitosan salts, have now been used in several preclinical and clinical studies with good tolerability, excellent immune stimulation and positive clinical results across a number of infections. Particularly significant evidence supporting chitosan as an adjuvant for nasal vaccination comes from clinical investigations on a norovirus vaccine; this demonstrated the ability of chitosan (ChiSys®), when combined with monophosphoryl lipid, to evoke robust immunological responses and confer protective immunity following (enteral) norovirus challenge. This article summarizes the totality of the meaningful information (including key unpublished data) supporting the development of chitosan-adjuvanted vaccines."},"24397898":{"title":"Cross-species protection: Schistosoma mansoni Sm-p80 vaccine confers protection against Schistosoma haematobium in hamsters and baboons.","abstract":"The ability of the Schistosoma mansoni antigen, Sm-p80, to provide cross-species protection against Schistosoma haematobium challenge was evaluated in hamster and baboon models. Pronounced reduction in worm burden (48%) and in tissue egg load (64%) was observed in hamsters vaccinated with recombinant Sm-p80 admixed with glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant-stable emulsion (GLA-SE). Similarly, in baboons, the Sm-p80/GLA-SE vaccine produced a 25% reduction in S. haematobium adult worms and decreased the egg load in the urinary bladder by 64%. A 40% and 53% reduction in fecal and urine egg output, respectively, was observed in vaccinated baboons. A balanced pro-inflammatory (Th17 and Th1) and Th2 type of response was generated after vaccination and appears indicative of augmented prophylactic efficacy. These data on cross-species protection coupled with the prophylactic, therapeutic and antifecundity efficacy against the homologous parasite, S. mansoni, reinforces Sm-p80 as a promising vaccine candidate. It is currently being prepared for GMP-compliant manufacture and for further pre-clinical development leading to human clinical trials. These results solidify the expectation that the Sm-p80 vaccine will provide relief for both the intestinal and the urinary schistosomiasis and thus will be greatly beneficial in reducing the overall burden of schistosomiasis."},"24403527":{"title":"Development and preclinical evaluation of a trivalent, formalin-inactivated Shigella whole-cell vaccine.","abstract":"Studies were undertaken to manufacture a multivalent Shigella inactivated whole-cell vaccine that is safe, effective, and inexpensive. By using several formalin concentrations, temperatures, and incubation periods, an optimized set of inactivation conditions was established for Shigella flexneri 2a, S. sonnei, and S. flexneri 3a to produce inactivated whole cells expressing a full repertoire of Ipa proteins and lipopolysaccharide (LPS). The inactivation conditions selected were treatment with 0.2% formalin (S. flexneri 2a and 3a) or 0.6% formalin (S. sonnei) for 48 h at 25°C. Vaccine formulations prepared under different inactivation conditions, in different doses (10E5, 10E7, and 10E9 cells), and with or without the inclusion of double-mutant heat-labile toxin (dmLT) were evaluated in mice. Two intranasal immunizations with ≥10E7 inactivated whole cells resulted in high levels of anti-Invaplex and moderate levels of LPS-specific IgG and IgA in serum and in lung and intestinal wash samples. Addition of dmLT to the vaccine formulations did not significantly enhance humoral immunogenicity. Minimal humoral responses for IpaB, IpaC, or IpaD were detected after immunization with inactivated whole Shigella cells regardless of the vaccine inactivation conditions. In guinea pigs, monovalent formulations of S. flexneri 2a of 3a or S. sonnei consisting of 10E8, 10E9, or 10E10 cells were protective in a keratoconjunctivitis assay. A trivalent formulation provided protection against all three serotypes (S. flexneri 2a, P = 0.018; S. flexneri 3a, P = 0.04; S. sonnei, P < 0.0001). The inactivated Shigella whole-cell vaccine approach incorporates an uncomplicated manufacturing process that is compatible with multivalency and the future development of a broadly protective Shigella vaccine."},"24404140":{"title":"A dual TLR agonist adjuvant enhances the immunogenicity and protective efficacy of the tuberculosis vaccine antigen ID93.","abstract":"With over eight million cases of tuberculosis each year there is a pressing need for the development of new vaccines against Mycobacterium tuberculosis. Subunit vaccines consisting of recombinant proteins are an attractive vaccine approach due to their inherent safety compared to attenuated live vaccines and the uniformity of manufacture. Addition of properly formulated TLR agonist-containing adjuvants to recombinant protein vaccines enhances the antigen-specific CD4(+) T cell response characterized by IFN-γ and TNF, both of which are critical for the control of TB. We have developed a clinical stage vaccine candidate consisting of a recombinant fusion protein ID93 adjuvanted with the TLR4 agonist GLA-SE. Here we examine whether ID93+GLA-SE can be improved by the addition of a second TLR agonist. Addition of CpG containing DNA to ID93+GLA-SE enhanced the magnitude of the multi-functional TH1 response against ID93 characterized by co-production of IFN-γ, TNF, and IL-2. Addition of CpG also improved the protective efficacy of ID93+GLA-SE. Finally we demonstrate that this adjuvant synergy between GLA and CpG is independent of TRIF signaling, whereas TRIF is necessary for the adjuvant activity of GLA-SE in the absence of CpG."},"24435162":{"title":"Co-delivery of LIGHT expression plasmid enhances humoral and cellular immune responses to HIV-1 Nef in mice.","abstract":"The immunogenicity and efficacy of a DNA vaccine can be greatly enhanced when a gene adjuvant is used. LIGHT, a member of TNF superfamily, can function as a costimulatory molecule for human naïve T cells to proliferate and can be a potential gene adjuvant. In the current study, the eukaryotic expression plasmid pcDNA-nef was constructed by inserting a full-length nef gene into pcDNA3.1(+), and an in vitro transfection experiment suggested that the nef gene could be expressed successfully in mammalian cells. BALB/c mice were immunized with HIV-1 nef DNA vaccine plasmids alone or in combination with LIGHT expression plasmids, and the specific humoral and cellular immune responses were measured. The data showed that HIV-1 nef DNA vaccine plasmids could induce anti-Nef antibodies, Nef-specific lymphocyte proliferation and CTL activity, whereas stronger specific immune responses were induced in mice when co-immunizing with HIV-1 nef DNA vaccine plasmids and LIGHT expression plasmids, suggesting that the eukaryotic expression vector encoding HIV-1 nef is capable of inducing specific immune responses towards HIV-1 Nef and that LIGHT could be considered as a gene adjuvant for HIV-1 DNA vaccination."},"24448242":{"title":"Alarmin IL-33 acts as an immunoadjuvant to enhance antigen-specific tumor immunity.","abstract":"Studies of interleukin (IL)-33 reveal a number of pleiotropic properties. Here, we report that IL-33 has immunoadjuvant effects in a human papilloma virus (HPV)-associated model for cancer immunotherapy where cell-mediated immunity is critical for protection. Two biologically active isoforms of IL-33 exist that are full-length or mature, but the ability of either isoform to function as a vaccine adjuvant that influences CD4 T helper 1 or CD8 T-cell immune responses is not defined. We showed that both IL-33 isoforms are capable of enhancing potent antigen-specific effector and memory T-cell immunity in vivo in a DNA vaccine setting. In addition, although both IL-33 isoforms drove robust IFN-γ responses, neither elevated secretion of IL-4 or immunoglobulin E levels. Further, both isoforms augmented vaccine-induced antigen-specific polyfunctional CD4(+) and CD8(+) T-cell responses, with a large proportion of CD8(+) T cells undergoing plurifunctional cytolytic degranulation. Therapeutic studies indicated that vaccination with either IL-33 isoform in conjunction with an HPV DNA vaccine caused rapid and complete regressions in vivo. Moreover, IL-33 could expand the magnitude of antigen-specific CD8(+) T-cell responses and elicit effector-memory CD8(+) T cells. Taken together, our results support the development of these IL-33 isoforms as immunoadjuvants in vaccinations against pathogens, including in the context of antitumor immunotherapy."},"24453241":{"title":"Intradermal delivery of Shigella IpaB and IpaD type III secretion proteins: kinetics of cell recruitment and antigen uptake, mucosal and systemic immunity, and protection across serotypes.","abstract":"Shigella is one of the leading pathogens contributing to the vast pediatric diarrheal disease burden in low-income countries. No licensed vaccine is available, and the existing candidates are only partially effective and serotype specific. Shigella type III secretion system proteins IpaB and IpaD, which are conserved across Shigella spp., are candidates for a broadly protective, subunit-based vaccine. In this study, we investigated the immunogenicity and protective efficacy of IpaB and IpaD administered intradermally (i.d.) with a double-mutant of the Escherichia coli heat-labile enterotoxin (dmLT) adjuvant using microneedles. Different dosage levels of IpaB and IpaD, with or without dmLT, were tested in mice. Vaccine delivery into the dermis, recruitment of neutrophils, macrophages, dendritic cells, and Langerhans cells, and colocalization of vaccine Ag within skin-activated APC were demonstrated through histology and immunofluorescence microscopy. Ag-loaded neutrophils, macrophages, dendritic cells, and Langerhans cells remained in the tissue at least 1 wk. IpaB, IpaD, and dmLT-specific serum IgG- and IgG-secreting cells were produced following i.d. immunization. The protective efficacy was 70% against Shigella flexneri and 50% against Shigella sonnei. Similar results were obtained when the vaccine was administered intranasally, with the i.d. route requiring 25-40 times lower doses. Distinctively, IgG was detected in mucosal secretions; secretory IgA, as well as mucosal and systemic IgA Ab-secreting cells, were seemingly absent. Vaccine-induced T cells produced IFN-γ, IL-2, TNF-α, IL-17, IL-4, IL-5, and IL-10. These results demonstrate the potential of i.d. vaccination with IpaB and IpaD to prevent Shigella infection and support further studies in humans."},"24465426":{"title":"Glucopyranosyl lipid A adjuvant significantly enhances HIV specific T and B cell responses elicited by a DNA-MVA-protein vaccine regimen.","abstract":"Using a unique vaccine antigen matched and single HIV Clade C approach we have assessed the immunogenicity of a DNA-poxvirus-protein strategy in mice and rabbits, administering MVA and protein immunizations either sequentially or simultaneously and in the presence of a novel TLR4 adjuvant, GLA-AF. Mice were vaccinated with combinations of HIV env/gag-pol-nef plasmid DNA followed by MVA-C (HIV env/gag-pol-nef) with HIV CN54gp140 protein (+/-GLA-AF adjuvant) and either co-administered in different muscles of the same animal with MVA-C or given sequentially at 3-week intervals. The DNA prime established a population of B cells that were able to mount a statistically significant anamnestic response to the boost vaccines. The greatest antigen-specific antibody response was observed in animals that received all vaccine components. Moreover, a high proportion of the total mucosal IgG (20 - 50%) present in the vaginal vault of these vaccinated animals was vaccine antigen-specific. The potent elicitation of antigen-specific immune responses to this vaccine modality was also confirmed in rabbits. Importantly, co-administration of MVA-C with the GLA-AF adjuvanted HIV CN54gp140 protein significantly augmented the antigen-specific T cell responses to the Gag antigen, a transgene product expressed by the MVA-C vector in a separate quadriceps muscle. We have demonstrated that co-administration of MVA and GLA-AF adjuvanted HIV CN54gp140 protein was equally effective in the generation of humoral responses as a sequential vaccination modality thus shortening and simplifying the immunization schedule. In addition, a significant further benefit of the condensed vaccination regime was that T cell responses to proteins expressed by the MVA-C were potently enhanced, an effect that was likely due to enhanced immunostimulation in the presence of systemic GLA-AF."},"24551202":{"title":"GLA-AF, an emulsion-free vaccine adjuvant for pandemic influenza.","abstract":"The ongoing threat from Influenza necessitates the development of new vaccine and adjuvant technologies that can maximize vaccine immunogenicity, shorten production cycles, and increase global vaccine supply. Currently, the most successful adjuvants for Influenza vaccines are squalene-based oil-in-water emulsions. These adjuvants enhance seroprotective antibody titers to homologous and heterologous strains of virus, and augment a significant dose sparing activity that could improve vaccine manufacturing capacity. As an alternative to an emulsion, we tested a simple lipid-based aqueous formulation containing a synthetic TLR4 ligand (GLA-AF) for its ability to enhance protection against H5N1 infection. GLA-AF was very effective in adjuvanting recombinant H5 hemagglutinin antigen (rH5) in mice and was as potent as the stable emulsion, SE. Both adjuvants induced similar antibody titers using a sub-microgram dose of rH5, and both conferred complete protection against a highly pathogenic H5N1 challenge. However, GLA-AF was the superior adjuvant in ferrets. GLA-AF stimulated a broader antibody response than SE after both the prime and boost immunization with rH5, and ferrets were better protected against homologous and heterologous strains of H5N1 virus. Thus, GLA-AF is a potent emulsion-free adjuvant that warrants consideration for pandemic influenza vaccine development."},"24554695":{"title":"Advax-adjuvanted recombinant protective antigen provides protection against inhalational anthrax that is further enhanced by addition of murabutide adjuvant.","abstract":"Subunit vaccines against anthrax based on recombinant protective antigen (PA) potentially offer more consistent and less reactogenic anthrax vaccines but require adjuvants to achieve optimal immunogenicity. This study sought to determine in a murine model of pulmonary anthrax infection whether the polysaccharide adjuvant Advax or the innate immune adjuvant murabutide alone or together could enhance PA immunogenicity by comparison to an alum adjuvant. A single immunization with PA plus Advax adjuvant afforded significantly greater protection against aerosolized Bacillus anthracis Sterne strain 7702 than three immunizations with PA alone. Murabutide had a weaker adjuvant effect than Advax when used alone, but when murabutide was formulated together with Advax, an additive effect on immunogenicity and protection was observed, with complete protection after just two doses. The combined adjuvant formulation stimulated a robust, long-lasting B-cell memory response that protected mice against an aerosol challenge 18 months postimmunization with acceleration of the kinetics of the anamnestic IgG response to B. anthracis as reflected by ∼4-fold-higher anti-PA IgG titers by day 2 postchallenge versus mice that received PA with Alhydrogel. In addition, the combination of Advax plus murabutide induced approximately 3-fold-less inflammation than Alhydrogel as measured by in vivo imaging of cathepsin cleavage resulting from injection of ProSense 750. Thus, the combination of Advax and murabutide provided enhanced protection against inhalational anthrax with reduced localized inflammation, making this a promising next-generation anthrax vaccine adjuvanting strategy."},"24556505":{"title":"Comparison of multiple adjuvants on the stability and immunogenicity of a clade C HIV-1 gp140 trimer.","abstract":"Immunogens based on the human immunodeficiency virus type-1 (HIV-1) Envelope (Env) glycoprotein have to date failed to elicit potent and broadly neutralizing antibodies against diverse HIV-1 strains. An understudied area in the development of HIV-1 Env-based vaccines is the impact of various adjuvants on the stability of the Env immunogen and the magnitude of the induced humoral immune response. We hypothesize that optimal adjuvants for HIV-1 gp140 Env trimers will be those with high potency but also those that preserve structural integrity of the immunogen and those that have a straightforward path to clinical testing. In this report, we systematically evaluate the impact of 12 adjuvants on the stability and immunogenicity of a clade C (CZA97.012) HIV-1 gp140 trimer in guinea pigs and a subset in non-human primates. Oil-in-water emulsions (GLA-emulsion, Ribi, Emulsigen) resulted in partial aggregation and loss of structural integrity of the gp140 trimer. In contrast, alum (GLA-alum, Adju-Phos, Alhydrogel), TLR (GLA-aqueous, CpG, MPLA), ISCOM (Matrix M) and liposomal (GLA-liposomes, virosomes) adjuvants appeared to preserve trimer integrity as measured by size exclusion chromatography. However, multiple classes of adjuvants similarly augmented Env-specific binding and neutralizing antibody responses in guinea pigs and non-human primates."},"24631089":{"title":"As a genetic adjuvant, CTA improves the immunogenicity of DNA vaccines in an ADP-ribosyltransferase activity- and IL-6-dependent manner.","abstract":"Cholera toxin (CT) and its subunits (A and B) have been intensively investigated as adjuvants for protein-based vaccines. Their underlying mechanisms vary with respect to the inoculation route used. By fusing the CTA gene to either the HIV-1-derived Tat-Rev-Vif-Integrase-Nef fusion gene or the OVA gene, our study showed that the fusion of CTA in these DNA vaccines had no cytotoxic effect in vitro and significantly improved both the quantity and quality of the elicited CD8(+) T cell responses. Further experiments identified that the fusion of CTA in these DNA vaccines augmented the secretion of IL-6 in a manner that was dependent on its ADP-ribosyltransferase activity, and protein kinase A (PKA) was found to be the major mediator of its downstream signaling. By site-directed mutagenesis of the ADP-ribosyltransferase catalytic center and in vivo RNAi, we demonstrated that the ADP-ribosyltransferase activity and the upregulation of IL-6 were required for the CTA gene-mediated adjuvant effect. These findings demonstrate that when fused to an immunogen gene, the CTA gene could serve as a potent genetic adjuvant, providing new insights into the mechanisms of CTA as an adjuvant."},"24681229":{"title":"Antigen sparing and enhanced protection using a novel rOv-ASP-1 adjuvant in aqueous formulation with influenza vaccines.","abstract":"Influenza is one of the most common infectious diseases endangering the health of humans, especially young children and the elderly. Although vaccination is the most effective means of protection against influenza, frequent mutations in viral surface antigens, low protective efficacy of the influenza vaccine in the elderly, slow production process and the potential of vaccine supply shortage during a pandemic are significant limitations of current vaccines. Adjuvants have been used to enhance the efficacy of a variety of vaccines; however, no adjuvant is included in current influenza vaccines approved in the United States. In this study, we found that a novel adjuvant, rOv-ASP-1, co-administrated with inactivated influenza vaccine using an aqueous formulation, substantially improved the influenza-specific antibody response and protection against lethal infection in a mouse model. rOv-ASP-1 enhanced the magnitude of the specific antibody response after immunization with low doses of influenza vaccine, allowing antigen-sparring by 10-fold. The rOv-ASP-1 formulated vaccine induced a more rapid response and a stronger Th1-associated antibody response compared to vaccine alone and to the vaccine formulated with the adjuvant alum. Importantly, rOv-ASP-1 significantly enhanced cross-reactive antibody responses and protection against challenge with an antigenically distinct strain. These results demonstrate that rOv-ASP-1 is an effective adjuvant that: (1) accelerates and enhances the specific antibody response induced by influenza vaccine; (2) allows for antigen sparing; and (3) augments a Th1-biased and cross-reactive antibody response that confers protection against an antigenically distinct strain."},"24726012":{"title":"MART-1 peptide vaccination plus IMP321 (LAG-3Ig fusion protein) in patients receiving autologous PBMCs after lymphodepletion: results of a Phase I trial.","abstract":"Immunotherapy offers a promising novel approach for the treatment of cancer and both adoptive T-cell transfer and immune modulation lead to regression of advanced melanoma. However, the potential synergy between these two strategies remains unclear. We investigated in 12 patients with advanced stage IV melanoma the effect of multiple MART-1 analog peptide vaccinations with (n = 6) or without (n = 6) IMP321 (LAG-3Ig fusion protein) as an adjuvant in combination with lymphodepleting chemotherapy and adoptive transfer of autologous PBMCs at day (D) 0 (Trial registration No: NCT00324623). All patients were selected on the basis of ex vivo detectable MART-1-specific CD8 T-cell responses and immunized at D0, 8, 15, 22, 28, 52, and 74 post-reinfusion. After immunization, a significant expansion of MART-1-specific CD8 T cells was measured in 83% (n = 5/6) and 17% (n = 1/6) of patients from the IMP321 and control groups, respectively (P < 0.02). Compared to the control group, the mean fold increase of MART-1-specific CD8 T cells in the IMP321 group was respectively >2-, >4- and >6-fold higher at D15, D30 and D60 (P < 0.02). Long-lasting MART-1-specific CD8 T-cell responses were significantly associated with IMP321 (P < 0.02). At the peak of the response, MART-1-specific CD8 T cells contained higher proportions of effector (CCR7⁻ CD45RA⁺/⁻) cells in the IMP321 group (P < 0.02) and showed no sign of exhaustion (i.e. were mostly PD1⁻CD160⁻TIM3⁻LAG3⁻2B4⁺/⁻). Moreover, IMP321 was associated with a significantly reduced expansion of regulatory T cells (P < 0.04); consistently, we observed a negative correlation between the relative expansion of MART-1-specific CD8 T cells and of regulatory T cells. Finally, although there were no confirmed responses as per RECIST criteria, a transient, 30-day partial response was observed in a patient from the IMP321 group. Vaccination with IMP321 as an adjuvant in combination with lymphodepleting chemotherapy and adoptive transfer of autologous PBMCs induced more robust and durable cellular antitumor immune responses, supporting further development of IMP321 as an adjuvant for future immunotherapeutic strategies."},"24728521":{"title":"Longevity of Sm-p80-specific antibody responses following vaccination with Sm-p80 vaccine in mice and baboons and transplacental transfer of Sm-p80-specific antibodies in a baboon.","abstract":"Based on data obtained using vaccine efficacy studies in mice, hamsters, and baboons, the credentials of Sm-p80 as a first tier vaccine candidate for schistosomiasis have been well established. Sm-p80-based vaccine formulation(s) have consistently exhibited potent prophylactic efficacy in reducing adult worm burden following cercarial challenge and induce killing of established adult worms in chronic infection. This vaccine is protective against both intestinal and urinary schistosomiasis. In this study, the longevity of Sm-p80-specific antibody responses was studied in mice and in baboons. Robust antibody titers were detected in mice for up to 60 weeks following vaccination with Sm-p80 recombinant vaccine (Sm-p80 + GLA-SE). In the follow-up experiments to our published studies, Sm-p80-specific IgG was also detected in baboons 5-8 years following the initial vaccination with an Sm-p80 DNA vaccine. In one baboon, transfer of Sm-p80-specific antibody was detected in umbilical cord blood and in the baby. These long-lasting humoral immune response data coupled with the vaccine efficacy data in rodents and nonhuman primates further strengthens the case for Sm-p80 to be moved forward through development leading to human clinical trials."},"24741585":{"title":"Fusion-expressed CTB improves both systemic and mucosal T-cell responses elicited by an intranasal DNA priming/intramuscular recombinant vaccinia boosting regimen.","abstract":"Previous study showed that CTB (Cholera toxin subunit B) can be used as a genetic adjuvant to enhance the systemic immune responses. To further investigate whether it can also be used as a genetic adjuvant to improve mucosal immune responses, we constructed DNA and recombinant Tiantan vaccinia (rTTV) vaccines expressing OVA-CTB fusion antigen. Female C57BL/6 mice were immunized with an intranasal DNA priming/intramuscular rTTV boosting regimen. OVA specific T-cell responses were measured by IFN-γ ELISPOT and specific antibody responses were determined by ELISA. Compared to the nonadjuvant group (pSV-OVA intranasal priming/rTTV-OVA intramuscular boosting), pSV-OVA-CTB intranasal priming/rTTV-OVA-CTB intramuscular boosting group significantly improved the magnitudes of T-cell responses at spleen (1562 ± 567 SFCs/10(6) splenocytes versus 330 ± 182 SFCs/10(6) splenocytes, P < 0.01), mesenteric LN (96 ± 83 SFCs/10(6) lymphocytes versus 1 ± 2 SFCs/10(6) lymphocytes, P < 0.05), draining LNs of respiratory tract (109 ± 60 SFCs/10(6) lymphocytes versus 2 ± 2 SFCs/10(6) lymphocytes, P < 0.01) and female genital tract (89 ± 48 SFCs/10(6) lymphocytes versus 23 ± 21 SFCs/10(6) lymphocytes, P < 0.01). These results collectively demonstrated that fusion-expressed CTB could act as a potent adjuvant to improve both systemic and mucosal T-cell responses."},"24743733":{"title":"Synergistic effects of glycated chitosan with high-intensity focused ultrasound on suppression of metastases in a syngeneic breast tumor model.","abstract":"Stimulation of the host immune system is crucial in cancer treatment. In particular, nonspecific immunotherapies, when combined with other traditional therapies such as radiation and chemotherapy, may induce immunity against primary and metastatic tumors. In this study, we demonstrate that a novel, non-toxic immunoadjuvant, glycated chitosan (GC), decreases the motility and invasion of mammalian breast cancer cells in vitro and in vivo. Lung metastatic ratios were reduced in 4T1 tumor-bearing mice when intratumoral GC injection was combined with local high-intensity focused ultrasound (HIFU) treatment. We postulate that this treatment modality stimulates the host immune system to combat cancer cells, as macrophage accumulation in tumor lesions was detected after GC-HIFU treatment. In addition, plasma collected from GC-HIFU-treated tumor-bearing mice exhibited tumor-specific cytotoxicity. We also investigated the effect of GC on epithelial-mesenchymal transition-related markers. Our results showed that GC decreased the expression of Twist-1 and Slug, proto-oncogenes commonly implicated in metastasis. Epithelial-cadherin, which is regulated by these genes, was also upregulated. Taken together, our current data suggest that GC alone can reduce cancer cell motility and invasion, whereas GC-HIFU treatment can induce immune responses to suppress tumor metastasis in vivo."},"24783964":{"title":"Synthesis of carbohydrate methyl phosphoramidates.","abstract":"A two-step route for introducing methyl phosphoramidate moieties onto carbohydrates is reported. The approach uses methyl pivolyl H-phosphonate as the phosphorylating reagent to produce an isolable carbohydrate H-phosphonate intermediate that is then oxidized by a Todd-Atherton reaction. The stability of the product methyl phosphoramidates was subsequently evaluated using various deprotection strategies."},"24859056":{"title":"Enhanced dendritic cell maturation by the B-chain of Korean mistletoe lectin (KML-B), a novel TLR4 agonist.","abstract":"Korean mistletoe lectin (KML) is composed of A and B sub-chains. The B-chain binds to cell surfaces, whereas the A-chain hinders translation because it is a RIP (ribosome inactivating protein) inducing apoptosis. Although KML has various biological and immunological activities, its potential use in cancer therapy or as an adjuvant therapy is limited by its toxicity to normal cells. This study was conducted to determine whether the B-chain of KML (KML-B) has immunoadjuvant activity and cytotoxicity activity. To evaluate the immunomodulatory activities of B chain KML, in vitro experiments employing bone marrow-derived dendritic cells (BMDCs) were performed. Dendritic cells (DCs) are a unique group of white blood cells that are able to capture and process antigens for presentation to T cells, which constitute primary immune response. In the present study, KML-B was found to be non-cytotoxic to BMDCs. Furthermore, the expressions of co-stimulatory molecules (CD40, CD80, CD86, and MHC II) and the secretions of cytokines (IL-1β, IL-6, IL-12p70, and TNF-α) were increased in BMDCs by KML-B. In addition, other indicators (antigen-uptake and CCR7 expression) of BMDC maturation were changed by KML-B, and the ability of KML-B to enhance various functions by BMDCs was found to be dependent on TLR4 expression. Moreover, BMDCs matured by KML-B induced naïve CD4(+) T cell differentiation toward Th1 cells directly and indirectly. These experiments confirm that KML-B exhibits potent immunomodulatory properties and suggest that KML-B be considered a potential dendritic cell-based cancer therapy and immunoadjuvant."},"24884664":{"title":"Improvement of spinal non-viral IL-10 gene delivery by D-mannose as a transgene adjuvant to control chronic neuropathic pain.","abstract":"Peri-spinal subarachnoid (intrathecal; i.t.) injection of non-viral naked plasmid DNA encoding the anti-inflammatory cytokine, IL-10 (pDNA-IL-10) suppresses chronic neuropathic pain in animal models. However, two sequential i.t. pDNA injections are required within a discrete 5 to 72-hour period for prolonged efficacy. Previous reports identified phagocytic immune cells present in the peri-spinal milieu surrounding the i.t injection site that may play a role in transgene uptake resulting in subsequent IL-10 transgene expression. In the present study, we aimed to examine whether factors known to induce pro-phagocytic anti-inflammatory properties of immune cells improve i.t. IL-10 transgene uptake using reduced naked pDNA-IL-10 doses previously determined ineffective. Both the synthetic glucocorticoid, dexamethasone, and the hexose sugar, D-mannose, were factors examined that could optimize i.t. pDNA-IL-10 uptake leading to enduring suppression of neuropathic pain as assessed by light touch sensitivity of the rat hindpaw (allodynia). Compared to dexamethasone, i.t. mannose pretreatment significantly and dose-dependently prolonged pDNA-IL-10 pain suppressive effects, reduced spinal IL-1β and enhanced spinal and dorsal root ganglia IL-10 immunoreactivity. Macrophages exposed to D-mannose revealed reduced proinflammatory TNF-α, IL-1β, and nitric oxide, and increased IL-10 protein release, while IL-4 revealed no improvement in transgene uptake. Separately, D-mannose dramatically increased pDNA-derived IL-10 protein release in culture supernatants. Lastly, a single i.t. co-injection of mannose with a 25-fold lower pDNA-IL-10 dose produced prolonged pain suppression in neuropathic rats. Peri-spinal treatment with D-mannose may optimize naked pDNA-IL-10 transgene uptake for suppression of allodynia, and is a novel approach to tune spinal immune cells toward pro-phagocytic phenotype for improved non-viral gene therapy."},"24958701":{"title":"A single immunization with inactivated H1N1 influenza vaccine formulated with delta inulin adjuvant (Advax™) overcomes pregnancy-associated immune suppression and enhances passive neonatal protection.","abstract":"Pregnant women and neonates represent high-risk groups for influenza infection, and in general have suppressed responses to standard influenza vaccines due to pregnancy-associated immune suppression and immune system immaturity, respectively. We therefore wished to test whether addition of Advax™, a polysaccharide adjuvant based on delta inulin, to an inactivated influenza vaccine (A/H1N1/PR8) administered during pregnancy would safely enhance vaccine immunogenicity and thereby provide improved protection of pregnant mothers and their newborns. Pregnant mice received a single intramuscular injection of β-propiolactone-inactivated H1N1 antigen alone or with Advax adjuvant. Pregnant dams receiving Advax-adjuvanted vaccine exhibited significantly increased serum and breast milk anti-influenza IgG titers. This translated into higher serum anti-influenza IgG titers in the pups of these dams. Complete protection was seen in pups of dams that received Advax-adjuvanted vaccine whereas no survival was seen in pups of control mothers or mothers immunized with unadjuvanted influenza vaccine. Cross-fostering studies confirmed that enhanced protection of pups of dams that received Advax-adjuvanted vaccine was mediated by enhanced transfer of maternal IgG to the pups via breast-feeding. The delta inulin adjuvant was not associated with any reproductive or developmental adverse effects. This study shows that Advax adjuvant was safe when administered with influenza vaccine during pregnancy and provided protection of pups via enhanced breast milk transfer of anti-influenza antibodies, not seen with administration of unadjuvanted vaccine."},"25003094":{"title":"Immunogenicity and efficacy of a plasmid DNA rabies vaccine incorporating Myd88 as a genetic adjuvant.","abstract":"Myeloid differentiation factor 88 (Myd88), a ubiquitous Toll-like receptor adaptor molecule, has been reported to play important roles in B cell responses to infections and vaccination. The present study evaluated the effects of genetic adjuvanting with Myd88 on the immune responses to a plasmid DNA rabies vaccine. Plasmids encoding rabies glycoprotein alone (pIRES-Rgp) or a fragment of Myd88 gene in addition (pIRES-Rgp-Myd) were constructed and administered intramuscularly or intrademally in Swiss albino mice (on days 0, 7, and 21). Rabies virus neutralizing antibody (RVNA) titres were estimated in the mice sera on days 14 and 28 by rapid fluorescent focus inhibition test. The protective efficacy of the constructs was evaluated by an intracerebral challenge with challenge virus standard virus on day 35. Co-expression of Myd88 increased RVNA responses to pIRES-Rgp by 3- and 2-folds, following intramuscular and intradermal immunization, respectively. pIRES-Rgp protected 80% of the mice following intramuscular and intradermal immunizations, while pIRES-Rgp-Myd afforded 100% protection following similar administrations. Genetic adjuvanting with Myd88 enhanced the RVNA responses and protective efficacy of a plasmid DNA rabies vaccine. This strategy might be useful for rabies vaccination of canines in the field, and needs further evaluation."},"25024362":{"title":"Protection against Mycobacterium leprae infection by the ID83/GLA-SE and ID93/GLA-SE vaccines developed for tuberculosis.","abstract":"Despite the dramatic reduction in the number of leprosy cases worldwide in the 1990s, transmission of the causative agent, Mycobacterium leprae, is still occurring, and new cases continue to appear. New strategies are required in the pursuit of leprosy elimination. The cross-application of vaccines in development for tuberculosis may lead to tools applicable to elimination of leprosy. In this report, we demonstrate that the chimeric fusion proteins ID83 and ID93, developed as antigens for tuberculosis (TB) vaccine candidates, elicited gamma interferon (IFN-γ) responses from both TB and paucibacillary (PB) leprosy patients and from healthy household contacts of multibacillary (MB) patients (HHC) but not from nonexposed healthy controls. Immunization of mice with either protein formulated with a Toll-like receptor 4 ligand (TLR4L)-containing adjuvant (glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant in a stable emulsion [GLA-SE]) stimulated antigen-specific IFN-γ secretion from pluripotent Th1 cells. When immunized mice were experimentally infected with M. leprae, both cellular infiltration into the local lymph node and bacterial growth at the site were reduced relative to those of unimmunized mice. Thus, the use of the Mycobacterium tuberculosis candidate vaccines ID83/GLA-SE and ID93/GLA-SE may confer cross-protection against M. leprae infection. Our data suggest these vaccines could potentially be used as an additional control measure for leprosy."},"25030053":{"title":"The ID93 tuberculosis vaccine candidate does not induce sensitivity to purified protein derivative.","abstract":"The tuberculin skin test (TST) is a simple and inexpensive test to determine whether individuals have been exposed to Mycobacterium tuberculosis. This test is not always reliable, however, in people previously immunized with BCG and/or who have been exposed to environmental mycobacterial species due to a reaction to purified protein derivative (PPD) used in the skin test. An issue with BCG, therefore, is that the resulting sensitization to PPD in some individuals compromises the diagnostic use of the skin test. The ability to induce protective immune responses without sensitizing to the tuberculin skin test will be important properties of next-generation tuberculosis (TB) vaccine candidates. We show here that guinea pigs immunized with the candidate TB vaccine ID93/GLA-SE, currently in clinical trials, do not react to intradermal PPD administration. In contrast, positive DTH responses to both ID93 and components thereof were induced in ID93/GLA-SE-immunized animals, indicating robust but specific cellular responses were present in the immunized animals. Noninterference with the TST is an important factor for consideration in the development of a vaccine against M. tuberculosis."},"25111827":{"title":"The immune response of two microbial antigens delivered intradermally, sublingually, or the combination thereof.","abstract":"A key consideration to produce a successful vaccine is the choice of appropriate vaccination route. Though most vaccines are administered parenterally, this route is not effective in producing a robust mucosal or cell-mediated response. Intradermal and sublingual vaccinations have been explored recently as potential needle-free immunization strategies. We explored intradermal and sublingual routes as well as the combination of the two routes in eliciting both systemic and mucosal immune responses. Mice were immunized intradermally or sublingually with dmLT, a mutant of Escherichia coli heat-labile toxin. A systemic IgG response is dominant in intradermal immunization while a mucosal IgA response is dominant in sublingual immunization. When routes were combined, a synergistic response was seen with high titers of anti-dmLT IgG and IgA. IpaB/IpaD antigens of Shigella flexneri type III secretion system, were admixed with dmLT as adjuvant and administered by each route alone or in combination. Again, the intradermal route elicited a systemic response while the sublingual route elicited a mucosal response. When combined, the routes produced a robust synergistic response to both antigens that exhibited a balanced Th1/Th2 response. These results provide a new potential needle-free immunization strategy that will benefit low income countries and increase compliance in industrial countries."},"25195514":{"title":"Amino acids 89-96 of Salmonella typhimurium flagellin represent the major domain responsible for TLR5-independent adjuvanticity in the humoral immune response.","abstract":"Toll-like receptor 5 (TLR5) signaling in response to flagellin is dispensable for inducing humoral immunity, but alterations of aa 89-96, the TLR5 binding site, significantly reduced the adjuvanticity of flagellin. These observations indicate that the underlying mechanism remains incompletely understood. Here, we found that the native form of Salmonella typhimurium aa 89-96-mutant flagellin extracted from flagella retains some TLR5 recognition activity, indicating that aa 89-96 is the primary, but not the only site that imparts TLR5 activity. Additionally, this mutation impaired the production of IL-1β and IL-18. Using TLR5KO mice, we found that aa 89-96 is critical for the humoral adjuvant effect, but this effect was independent of TLR5 activation triggered by this region of flagellin. In summary, our findings suggest that aa 89-96 of flagellin is not only the crucial site responsible for TLR5 recognition, but is also important for humoral immune adjuvanticity through a TLR5-independent pathway."},"25247295":{"title":"A full-length Plasmodium falciparum recombinant circumsporozoite protein expressed by Pseudomonas fluorescens platform as a malaria vaccine candidate.","abstract":"The circumsporozoite protein (CSP) of Plasmodium falciparum is a major surface protein, which forms a dense coat on the sporozoite's surface. Preclinical research on CSP and clinical evaluation of a CSP fragment-based RTS, S/AS01 vaccine have demonstrated a modest degree of protection against P. falciparum, mediated in part by humoral immunity and in part by cell-mediated immunity. Given the partial protective efficacy of the RTS, S/AS01 vaccine in a recent Phase 3 trial, further improvement of CSP-based vaccines is crucial. In this report, we describe the preclinical development of a full-length, recombinant CSP (rCSP)-based vaccine candidate against P. falciparum malaria suitable for current Good Manufacturing Practice (cGMP) production. Utilizing a novel high-throughput Pseudomonas fluorescens expression platform, we demonstrated greater efficacy of full-length rCSP as compared to N-terminally truncated versions, rapidly down-selected a promising lead vaccine candidate, and developed a high-yield purification process to express immunologically active, intact antigen for clinical trial material production. The rCSP, when formulated with various adjuvants, induced antigen-specific antibody responses as measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and immunofluorescence assay (IFA), as well as CD4+ T-cell responses as determined by ELISpot. The adjuvanted rCSP vaccine conferred protection in mice when challenged with transgenic P. berghei sporozoites containing the P. falciparum repeat region of CSP. Furthermore, heterologous prime/boost regimens with adjuvanted rCSP and an adenovirus type 35-vectored CSP (Ad35CS) showed modest improvements in eliciting CSP-specific T-cell responses and anti-malarial protection, depending on the order of vaccine delivery. Collectively, these data support the importance of further clinical development of adjuvanted rCSP, either as a stand-alone product or as one of the components in a heterologous prime/boost strategy, ultimately acting as an effective vaccine candidate for the mitigation of P. falciparum-induced malaria."},"25267153":{"title":"Immunogenicity and safety of Advax™, a novel polysaccharide adjuvant based on delta inulin, when formulated with hepatitis B surface antigen: a randomized controlled Phase 1 study.","abstract":"There is a need for additional safe and effective human vaccine adjuvants. Advax™ is a novel adjuvant produced from semi-crystalline particles of delta inulin. In animal studies Advax enhanced humoral and cellular immunity to hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) without inducing local or systemic reactogenicity. This first-in-man Phase 1 clinical trial tested the safety and tolerability of three intramuscular doses of HBsAg formulated with Advax in a group of healthy adult subjects. Advax was well tolerated with injection site pain scores not significantly different to subjects receiving HBsAg alone and no adverse events were reported in subjects that received Advax. Seroprotection and HBsAb geometric mean titers (GMT) after three immunizations were higher in the Advax 5mg (seroprotection 5/6, 83.3%, GMT 40.7, 95% CI 11.9-139.1) and 10mg (seroprotection 4/5, 80%, GMT 51.6, 95% CI 10.0-266.2) groups versus HBsAg alone (seroprotection 1/5, 20%, GMT 4.1, 95% CI 1.3-12.8). Similarly the proportion of subjects with positive CD4 T-cell responses to HBsAg was higher in the Advax 5mg (4/6, 67%) and Advax 10mg (4/5, 80%) groups versus HBsAg alone (1/5, 20%). These results confirm the safety, tolerability and immunogenicity of Advax adjuvant observed in preclinical studies. Advax may represent a suitable replacement for alum adjuvants in prophylactic human vaccines subject to confirmation of current results in larger studies. Australia and New Zealand Clinical Trial Registry: ACTRN12607000598482."},"25367751":{"title":"Squalene emulsion potentiates the adjuvant activity of the TLR4 agonist, GLA, via inflammatory caspases, IL-18, and IFN-γ.","abstract":"The synthetic TLR4 agonist glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant (GLA) is a potent Th1-response-inducing adjuvant when formulated in a squalene oil-in-water emulsion (SE). While the innate signals triggered by TLR4 engagement are well studied, the contribution of SE remains unclear. To better understand the effect of SE on the adjuvant properties of GLA-SE, we compared the innate and adaptive immune responses elicited by immunization with different formulations: GLA without oil, SE alone or the combination, GLA-SE, in mice. Within the innate response to adjuvants, only GLA-SE displayed features of inflammasome activation, evidenced by early IL-18 secretion and IFN-γ production in memory CD8(+) T cells and neutrophils. Such early IFN-γ production was ablated in caspase-1/11(-/-) mice and in IL-18R1(-/-) mice. Furthermore, caspase-1/11 and IL-18 were also required for full Th1 CD4(+) T-cell induction via GLA-SE. Thus, we demonstrate that IL-18 and caspase-1/11 are components of the response to immunization with the TLR4 agonist/squalene oil-in-water based adjuvant, GLA-SE, providing implications for other adjuvants that combine oils with TLR agonists."},"25444830":{"title":"Safety and immunogenicity of an improved oral inactivated multivalent enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli (ETEC) vaccine administered alone and together with dmLT adjuvant in a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled Phase I study.","abstract":"We have developed a new oral vaccine against enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli (ETEC), which is the most common cause of bacterial diarrhea in children in developing countries and in travelers. The vaccine was tested for safety and immunogenicity alone and together with double-mutant heat-labile toxin (dmLT) adjuvant in a double-blind, placebo-controlled Phase I study in 129 Swedish adults. The vaccine consists of four inactivated recombinant E. coli strains overexpressing the major ETEC colonization factors (CFs) CFA/I, CS3, CS5, and CS6 mixed with an LT B-subunit related toxoid, LCTBA. Volunteers received two oral doses of vaccine alone, vaccine plus 10 μg or 25 μg dmLT or placebo. Secretory IgA antibody responses in fecal samples and IgA responses in secretions from circulating intestine-derived antibody secreting cells were assessed as primary measures of vaccine immunogenicity. The vaccine was safe and well tolerated; adverse events were few and generally mild with no significant differences between subjects receiving placebo or vaccine with or without adjuvant. As many as 74% of subjects receiving vaccine alone and 83% receiving vaccine plus 10 μg dmLT showed significant mucosal IgA responses to all five primary vaccine antigens and about 90% of all vaccinees responded to at least four of the antigens. Subjects receiving vaccine plus 10 μg dmLT responded with significantly increased intestine-derived anti-CS6 responses compared to subjects receiving vaccine alone. The vaccine was safe and broadly immunogenic. dmLT further enhanced mucosal immune responses to CF antigens present in low amounts in the vaccine. Based on these encouraging results, the vaccine will be tested for safety and immunogenicity in different age groups including infants in Bangladesh and for protective efficacy in travelers."},"25459531":{"title":"Enhanced pulmonary immunization with aerosolized inactivated influenza vaccine containing delta inulin adjuvant.","abstract":"Vaccination is the primary intervention to contain influenza virus spread during seasonal and pandemic outbreaks. Pulmonary vaccination is gaining increasing attention for its ability to induce both local mucosal and systemic immune responses without the need for invasive injections. However, pulmonary administration of whole inactivated influenza virus (WIV) vaccine induces a Th2 dominant systemic immune response while a more balanced Th1/Th2 vaccine response may be preferred and only induces modest nasal immunity. This study evaluated immunity elicited by pulmonary versus intramuscular (i.m.) delivery of WIV, and tested whether the immune response could be improved by co-administration of delta (δ)-inulin, a novel carbohydrate-based particulate adjuvant. After pulmonary administration both unadjuvanted and δ-inulin adjuvanted WIV induced a potent systemic immune response, inducing higher serum anti-influenza IgG titers and nasal IgA titers than i.m. administration. Moreover, the addition of δ-inulin induced a more balanced Th1/Th2 response and induced higher nasal IgA titers versus pulmonary WIV alone. Pulmonary WIV alone or with δ-inulin induced hemagglutination inhibition (HI) titers>40, titers which are considered protective against influenza virus. In conclusion, in this study we have shown that δ-inulin adjuvanted WIV induces a better immune response after pulmonary administration than vaccine alone."},"25483682":{"title":"Serum and mucosal antibody responses to inactivated polio vaccine after sublingual immunization using a thermoresponsive gel delivery system.","abstract":"Administering vaccines directly to mucosal surfaces can induce both serum and mucosal immune responses. Mucosal responses may prevent establishment of initial infection at the port of entry and subsequent dissemination to other sites. The sublingual route is attractive for mucosal vaccination, but both a safe, potent adjuvant and a novel formulation are needed to achieve an adequate immune response. We report the use of a thermoresponsive gel (TRG) combined with a double mutant of a bacterial heat-labile toxin (dmLT) for sublingual immunization with a trivalent inactivated poliovirus vaccine (IPV) in mice. This TRG delivery system, which changes from aqueous solution to viscous gel upon contact with the mucosa at body temperature, helps to retain the formulation at the site of delivery and has functional adjuvant activity from the inclusion of dmLT. IPV was administered to mice either sublingually in the TRG delivery system or intramuscularly in phosphate-buffered saline. We measured poliovirus type-specific serum neutralizing antibodies as well as polio-specific serum Ig and IgA antibodies in serum, saliva, and fecal samples using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays. Mice receiving sublingual vaccination via the TRG delivery system produced both mucosal and serum antibodies, including IgA. Intramuscularly immunized animals produced only serum neutralizing and binding Ig but no detectable IgA. This study provides proof of concept for sublingual immunization using the TRG delivery system, comprising a thermoresponsive gel and dmLT adjuvant."},"25494044":{"title":"Novel Anti-Nicotine Vaccine Using a Trimeric Coiled-Coil Hapten Carrier.","abstract":"Tobacco addiction represents one of the largest public health problems in the world and is the leading cause of cancer and heart disease, resulting in millions of deaths a year. Vaccines for smoking cessation have shown considerable promise in preclinical models, although functional antibody responses induced in humans are only modestly effective in preventing nicotine entry into the brain. The challenge in generating serum antibodies with a large nicotine binding capacity is made difficult by the fact that this drug is non-immunogenic and must be conjugated as a hapten to a protein carrier. To circumvent the limitations of traditional carriers like keyhole limpet hemocyanin (KLH), we have synthesized a short trimeric coiled-coil peptide (TCC) that creates a series of B and T cell epitopes with uniform stoichiometry and high density. Here we compared the relative activities of a TCC-nic vaccine and two control KLH-nic vaccines using Alum as an adjuvant or GLA-SE, which contains a synthetic TLR4 agonist formulated in a stable oil-in-water emulsion. The results showed that the TCC's high hapten density correlated with a better immune response in mice as measured by anti-nicotine Ab titer, affinity, and specificity, and was responsible for a reduction in anti-carrier immunogenicity. The Ab responses achieved with this synthetic vaccine resulted in a nicotine binding capacity in serum that could prevent >90% of a nicotine dose equivalent to three smoked cigarettes (0.05 mg/kg) from reaching the brain."},"25516480":{"title":"Safety and immunogenicity of a delta inulin-adjuvanted inactivated Japanese encephalitis virus vaccine in pregnant mares and foals.","abstract":"In 2011, following severe flooding in Eastern Australia, an unprecedented epidemic of equine encephalitis occurred in South-Eastern Australia, caused by Murray Valley encephalitis virus (MVEV) and a new variant strain of Kunjin virus, a subtype of West Nile virus (WNVKUN). This prompted us to assess whether a delta inulin-adjuvanted, inactivated cell culture-derived Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) vaccine (JE-ADVAX™) could be used in horses, including pregnant mares and foals, to not only induce immunity to JEV, but also elicit cross-protective antibodies against MVEV and WNVKUN. Foals, 74-152 days old, received two injections of JE-ADVAX™. The vaccine was safe and well-tolerated and induced a strong JEV-neutralizing antibody response in all foals. MVEV and WNVKUN antibody cross-reactivity was seen in 33% and 42% of the immunized foals, respectively. JE-ADVAX™ was also safe and well-tolerated in pregnant mares and induced high JEV-neutralizing titers. The neutralizing activity was passively transferred to their foals via colostrum. Foals that acquired passive immunity to JEV via maternal antibodies then were immunized with JE-ADVAX™ at 36-83 days of age, showed evidence of maternal antibody interference with low peak antibody titers post-immunization when compared to immunized foals of JEV-naïve dams. Nevertheless, when given a single JE-ADVAX™ booster immunization as yearlings, these animals developed a rapid and robust JEV-neutralizing antibody response, indicating that they were successfully primed to JEV when immunized as foals, despite the presence of maternal antibodies. Overall, JE-ADVAX™ appears safe and well-tolerated in pregnant mares and young foals and induces protective levels of JEV neutralizing antibodies with partial cross-neutralization of MVEV and WNVKUN."},"25520500":{"title":"Severe acute respiratory syndrome-associated coronavirus vaccines formulated with delta inulin adjuvants provide enhanced protection while ameliorating lung eosinophilic immunopathology.","abstract":"Although the severe acute respiratory syndrome-associated coronavirus (SARS-CoV) epidemic was controlled by nonvaccine measures, coronaviruses remain a major threat to human health. The design of optimal coronavirus vaccines therefore remains a priority. Such vaccines present major challenges: coronavirus immunity often wanes rapidly, individuals needing to be protected include the elderly, and vaccines may exacerbate rather than prevent coronavirus lung immunopathology. To address these issues, we compared in a murine model a range of recombinant spike protein or inactivated whole-virus vaccine candidates alone or adjuvanted with either alum, CpG, or Advax, a new delta inulin-based polysaccharide adjuvant. While all vaccines protected against lethal infection, addition of adjuvant significantly increased serum neutralizing-antibody titers and reduced lung virus titers on day 3 postchallenge. Whereas unadjuvanted or alum-formulated vaccines were associated with significantly increased lung eosinophilic immunopathology on day 6 postchallenge, this was not seen in mice immunized with vaccines formulated with delta inulin adjuvant. Protection against eosinophilic immunopathology by vaccines containing delta inulin adjuvants correlated better with enhanced T-cell gamma interferon (IFN-γ) recall responses rather than reduced interleukin-4 (IL-4) responses, suggesting that immunopathology predominantly reflects an inadequate vaccine-induced Th1 response. This study highlights the critical importance for development of effective and safe coronavirus vaccines of selection of adjuvants based on the ability to induce durable IFN-γ responses. Coronaviruses such as SARS-CoV and Middle East respiratory syndrome-associated coronavirus (MERS-CoV) cause high case fatality rates and remain major human public health threats, creating a need for effective vaccines. While coronavirus antigens that induce protective neutralizing antibodies have been identified, coronavirus vaccines present a unique problem in that immunized individuals when infected by virus can develop lung eosinophilic pathology, a problem that is further exacerbated by the formulation of SARS-CoV vaccines with alum adjuvants. This study shows that formulation of SARS-CoV spike protein or inactivated whole-virus vaccines with novel delta inulin-based polysaccharide adjuvants enhances neutralizing-antibody titers and protection against clinical disease but at the same time also protects against development of lung eosinophilic immunopathology. It also shows that immunity achieved with delta inulin adjuvants is long-lived, thereby overcoming the natural tendency for rapidly waning coronavirus immunity. Thus, delta inulin adjuvants may offer a unique ability to develop safer and more effective coronavirus vaccines."},"25529567":{"title":"A stable nanoparticulate DDA/MMG formulation acts synergistically with CpG ODN 1826 to enhance the CD4⁺ T-cell response.","abstract":"To combine the dimethyldioctadecyl ammonium/monomycoloyl glycerol (DDA/MMG) liposomal vaccine adjuvant with the Toll-like receptor (TLR) ligands poly(I:C) (TLR3), flagellin (TLR5) or CpG oligodeoxynucleotide 1826 (TLR9) and investigate their physicochemical properties as well as their CD4(+) T-cell-inducing capacity. Formulations were investigated by dynamic light scattering and differential scanning calorimetry. Their CD4(+) T-cell induction with a tuberculosis antigen was analyzed by multiplex cytokine analysis, ELISA and intracellular cytokine staining. DDA/MMG/CpG was the best combination for obtaining increased CD4(+) T-cell responses. However, coformulating CpG and DDA/MMG liposomes led to instability and the formulation was therefore optimized systematically using a design of experiment. The nanoparticulate DDA/MMG/CpG adjuvant can be stabilized and synergistically enhances CD4(+) T-cell responses compared with DDA/MMG liposomes."},"25568203":{"title":"Synthetic Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) and TLR7 ligands as influenza virus vaccine adjuvants induce rapid, sustained, and broadly protective responses.","abstract":"Current vaccines against influenza virus infection rely on the induction of neutralizing antibodies targeting the globular head of the viral hemagglutinin (HA). Protection against seasonal antigenic drift or sporadic pandemic outbreaks requires further vaccine development to induce cross-protective humoral responses, potentially to the more conserved HA stalk region. Here, we present a novel viral vaccine adjuvant comprised of two synthetic ligands for Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) and TLR7. 1Z105 is a substituted pyrimido[5,4-b]indole specific for the TLR4-MD2 complex, and 1V270 is a phospholipid-conjugated TLR7 agonist. Separately, 1Z105 induces rapid Th2-associated IgG1 responses, and 1V270 potently generates Th1 cellular immunity. 1Z105 and 1V270 in combination with recombinant HA from the A/Puerto Rico/8/1934 strain (rPR/8 HA) effectively induces rapid and sustained humoral immunity that is protective against lethal challenge with a homologous virus. More importantly, immunization with the combined adjuvant and rPR/8 HA, a commercially available split vaccine, or chimeric rHA antigens significantly improves protection against both heterologous and heterosubtypic challenge viruses. Heterosubtypic protection is associated with broadly reactive antibodies to HA stalk epitopes. Histological examination and cytokine profiling reveal that intramuscular (i.m.) administration of 1Z105 and 1V270 is less reactogenic than a squalene-based adjuvant, AddaVax. In summary, the combination of 1Z105 and 1V270 with a recombinant HA induces rapid, long-lasting, and balanced Th1- and Th2-type immunity; demonstrates efficacy in a variety of murine influenza virus vaccine models assaying homologous, heterologous, and heterosubtypic challenge viruses; and has an excellent safety profile. Novel adjuvants are needed to enhance immunogenicity and increase the protective breadth of influenza virus vaccines to reduce the seasonal disease burden and ensure pandemic preparedness. We show here that the combination of synthetic Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) and TLR7 ligands is a potent adjuvant for recombinant influenza virus hemagglutinin, inducing rapid and sustained immunity that is protective against influenza viruses in homologous, heterologous, and heterosubtypic challenge models. Combining TLR4 and TLR7 ligands balances Th1- and Th2-type immune responses for long-lived cellular and neutralizing humoral immunity against the viral hemagglutinin. The combined adjuvant has an attractive safety profile and the potential to augment seasonal-vaccine breadth, contribute to a broadly neutralizing universal vaccine formulation, and improve response time in an emerging pandemic."},"25582686":{"title":"CD226 as a genetic adjuvant to enhance immune efficacy induced by Ag85A DNA vaccination.","abstract":"Antigen-85A (Ag85A) is one of the major proteins secreted by Mycobacterium tuberculosis. Many studies on animal models have shown that vaccination with the recombinant Ag85A-DNA or Ag85A protein induces powerful immune response. However, these vaccines cannot generate sufficient protective immunity in the systemic compartment. CD226, a member of the immunoglobulin superfamily, is expressed in the majority of NK cells, T cells, monocytes, and platelets, and can be served as a co-stimulator that contributes to multiple innate and adaptive responses. However, there has been no study where either CD226 protein or DNA has been used as an adjuvant for vaccine development. The aim of this study was to develop a novel Ag85A DNA vaccine with CD226 as the genetic adjuvant to increase the immune efficacy induced by Ag85A. Oral vaccination with pcDNA3.1-Ag85A-CD226 DNA induced potent immune responses in mice. CD226 was an effective genetic adjuvant that improved the immune efficacy induced by Ag85A and enhanced the activity of cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL) and NK cells in mice. Th1 dominant cytokines (i.e. IL-2, IFN-γ and TNF-α), cellular immunity (i.e. CD4(+)IFN-γ(+)T cells and CD8(+)IFN-γ(+)T cells in splenocytes) and MLNs were also significantly elevated by pcDNA3.1-Ag85A-CD226 DNA vaccination. Our results suggest that CD226 is an effective adjuvant to enhance the immune efficacy induced by Ag85A. Our findings provide a new strategy for the development of a DNA vaccine co-expressing Ag85A and CD226."},"25637347":{"title":"Interferon γ and Tumor Necrosis Factor Are Not Essential Parameters of CD4+ T-Cell Responses for Vaccine Control of Tuberculosis.","abstract":"Mycobacterium tuberculosis infects one third of the world's population and causes >8 million cases of tuberculosis annually. New vaccines are necessary to control the spread of tuberculosis. T cells, interferon γ (IFN-γ), and tumor necrosis factor (TNF) are necessary to control M. tuberculosis infection in both humans and unvaccinated experimental animal models. However, the immune responses necessary for vaccine efficacy against M. tuberculosis have not been defined. The multifunctional activity of T-helper type 1 (TH1) cells that simultaneously produce IFN-γ and TNF has been proposed as a candidate mechanism of vaccine efficacy. We used a mouse model of T-cell transfer and aerosolized M. tuberculosis infection to assess the contributions of TNF, IFN-γ, and inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) to vaccine efficacy. CD4(+) T cells were necessary and sufficient to transfer protection against aerosolized M. tuberculosis, but neither CD4(+) T cell-produced TNF nor host cell responsiveness to IFN-γ were necessary. Transfer of Tnf(-/-) CD4(+) T cells from vaccinated donors to Ifngr(-/-) recipients was also sufficient to confer protection. Activation of iNOS to produce reactive nitrogen species was not necessary for vaccine efficacy. Induction of TH1 cells that coexpress IFN-γ and TNF is not a requirement for vaccine efficacy against M. tuberculosis, despite these cytokines being essential for control of M. tuberculosis in nonvaccinated animals."},"25659269":{"title":"A gold glyco-nanoparticle carrying a Listeriolysin O peptide and formulated with Advax™ delta inulin adjuvant induces robust T-cell protection against listeria infection.","abstract":"In the search for an effective vaccine against the human pathogen, Listeria monocytogenes (Listeria), gold glyconanoparticles (GNP) loaded with a listeriolysin O peptide LLO91-99 (GNP-LLO) were used to immunise mice, initially using a dendritic cell (DC) vaccine approach, but subsequently using a standard parenteral immunisation approach. To enhance vaccine immunogenicity a novel polysaccharide adjuvant based on delta inulin (Advax™) was also co-formulated with the GNP vaccine. Confirming previous results, DC loaded in vitro with GNP-LLO provided better protection against listeriosis than DC loaded in vitro using free LLO peptide. The immunogenicity of GNP-LLO loaded DC vaccines was further increased by addition of Advax™ adjuvant. However, as DC vaccines are expensive and impracticable for prophylactic use, we next asked whether the same GNP-LLO antigen could be used to directly target DC in vivo. Immunisation of mice with GNP-LLO plus Advax™ adjuvant induced LLO-specific T-cell immunity and protection against Listeria challenge. Protection correlated with an increased frequency of splenic CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells, NK cells and CD8α(+) DC, and Th1 cytokine production (IL-12, IFN-γ, TNF-α, and MCP-1), post-challenge. Enhanced T-cell epitope recruitment post-challenge was seen in the groups that received Advax™ adjuvant. Immunisation with GNP-LLO91-99 plus Advax™ adjuvant provided equally robust Listeria protection as the best DC vaccine strategy but without the complexity and cost, making this a highly promising strategy for development of a prophylactic vaccine against listeriosis."},"25736195":{"title":"A truncated fragment of Ov-ASP-1 consisting of the core pathogenesis-related-1 (PR-1) domain maintains adjuvanticity as the full-length protein.","abstract":"The Onchocerca volvulus activation-associated secreted protein-1 (Ov-ASP-1) has good adjuvanticity for a variety of antigens and vaccines, probably due to its ability activate antigen-processing cells (APCs). However, the functional domain of Ov-ASP-1 as an adjuvant is not clearly defined. Based on the structural prediction of this protein family, we constructed a 16-kDa recombinant protein of Ov-ASP-1 that contains only the core pathogenesis-related-1 (PR-1) domain (residues 10-153), designated ASPPR. We found that ASPPR exhibits adjuvanticity similar to that of the full-length Ov-ASP-1 (residues 10-220) for various antigens, including ovalbumin (OVA), HBsAg protein antigen, and the HIV peptide 5 (Pep5) antigen, but it is more suitable for vaccine design in ASPPR-antigen fusion proteins, and more stable in PBS than Ov-ASP-1 stored at -70 °C. These results suggest that ASPPR might be the functional region of Ov-ASP-1 as an adjuvant, and therefore could be developed as an adjuvant for human use."},"25765967":{"title":"The novel adjuvant dmLT promotes dose sparing, mucosal immunity and longevity of antibody responses to the inactivated polio vaccine in a murine model.","abstract":"One option for achieving global polio eradication is to replace the oral poliovirus vaccine (OPV), which has the risk of reversion to wild-type virulence, with the inactivated poliovirus vaccine (IPV) vaccine. Adjuvants and alternate routes of immunization are promising options that may reduce antigen dose in IPV vaccinations, potentially allowing dose sparing and cost savings. Use of adjuvants and alternate routes of immunization could also help promote mucosal immunity, potentially mimicking the protection against intestinal virus shedding seen with OPV. In the current study, we examined the impact of combining the novel adjuvant dmLT with trivalent IPV for dose sparing, induction of mucosal immunity and increasing longevity of anti-poliovirus (PV) responses in a mouse model following either intradermal (ID) or intramuscular (IM) delivery. We found that non-adjuvanted ID delivery was not superior to IM delivery for fractional dose sparing, but was associated with development of mucosal immunity. Vaccination with IPV+dmLT promoted serum anti-PV neutralizing antibodies with fractional IPV doses by either IM or ID delivery, achieving at least five-fold dose sparing above non-adjuvanted fractional doses. These responses were most noticeable with the PV1 component of the trivalent vaccine. dmLT also promoted germinal center formation and longevity of serum anti-PV neutralizing titers. Lastly, dmLT enhanced mucosal immunity, as defined by fecal and intestinal anti-PV IgA secretion, when included in IPV immunization by ID or IM delivery. These studies demonstrate that dmLT is an effective adjuvant for either IM or ID delivery of IPV. Inclusion of dmLT in IPV immunizations allows antigen dose sparing and enhances mucosal immunity and longevity of anti-PV responses."},"25772201":{"title":"GITRL as a genetic adjuvant enhances enterovirus 71 VP1 DNA vaccine immunogenicity.","abstract":"VP1 protein is the immunodominant capsid protein of enterovirus 71 (EV71) which is responsible for large outbreaks of hand, foot and mouth disease. It has been reported that glucocorticoid-induced tumor necrosis factor receptor-related protein (GITR) and its ligand (GITRL) are involved in modulating both innate and adaptive immune responses. In this study, a DNA vaccine vector encoding EV71 VP1 gene and mGITRL gene (pIRES/VP1/mGITRL) was constructed. And female Balb/c mice were immunized intramuscularly with the DNA vaccine. Compared with the groups immunized with pIRES, pIRES/VP1, pIRES/mGITRL and PBS, the inoculation of pIRES/VP1/mGITRL induced a higher levels of EV71 VP1-specific antibody and specific antibody-forming cells. However, significantly higher levels of CD4(+)Th1, Th2 and CD8(+)IFN-γ(+)T cells were found in the pIRES/VP1/mGITRL group compared with control groups. Our results demonstrate that a novel DNA vaccine, expressing VP1 and mGITRL, could effectively elicit both humoral and cell-mediated immune responses against EV71 VP1 in mice. Thus, the mGITRL may be used as molecular adjuvant for EV71 DNA vaccine."},"25803825":{"title":"Genetic fusions of a CFA/I/II/IV MEFA (multiepitope fusion antigen) and a toxoid fusion of heat-stable toxin (STa) and heat-labile toxin (LT) of enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli (ETEC) retain broad anti-CFA and antitoxin antigenicity.","abstract":"Immunological heterogeneity has long been the major challenge in developing broadly effective vaccines to protect humans and animals against bacterial and viral infections. Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli (ETEC) strains, the leading bacterial cause of diarrhea in humans, express at least 23 immunologically different colonization factor antigens (CFAs) and two distinct enterotoxins [heat-labile toxin (LT) and heat-stable toxin type Ib (STa or hSTa)]. ETEC strains expressing any one or two CFAs and either toxin cause diarrhea, therefore vaccines inducing broad immunity against a majority of CFAs, if not all, and both toxins are expected to be effective against ETEC. In this study, we applied the multiepitope fusion antigen (MEFA) strategy to construct ETEC antigens and examined antigens for broad anti-CFA and antitoxin immunogenicity. CFA MEFA CFA/I/II/IV [CVI 2014, 21(2):243-9], which carried epitopes of seven CFAs [CFA/I, CFA/II (CS1, CS2, CS3), CFA/IV (CS4, CS5, CS6)] expressed by the most prevalent and virulent ETEC strains, was genetically fused to LT-STa toxoid fusion monomer 3xSTaA14Q-dmLT or 3xSTaN12S-dmLT [IAI 2014, 82(5):1823-32] for CFA/I/II/IV-STaA14Q-dmLT and CFA/I/II/IV-STaN12S-dmLT MEFAs. Mice intraperitoneally immunized with either CFA/I/II/IV-STa-toxoid-dmLT MEFA developed antibodies specific to seven CFAs and both toxins, at levels equivalent or comparable to those induced from co-administration of the CFA/I/II/IV MEFA and toxoid fusion 3xSTaN12S-dmLT. Moreover, induced antibodies showed in vitro adherence inhibition activities against ETEC or E. coli strains expressing these seven CFAs and neutralization activities against both toxins. These results indicated CFA/I/II/IV-STa-toxoid-dmLT MEFA or CFA/I/II/IV MEFA combined with 3xSTaN12S-dmLT induced broadly protective anti-CFA and antitoxin immunity, and suggested their potential application in broadly effective ETEC vaccine development. This MEFA strategy may be generally used in multivalent vaccine development."},"25937283":{"title":"Porous silicon microparticle potentiates anti-tumor immunity by enhancing cross-presentation and inducing type I interferon response.","abstract":"Micro- and nanometer-size particles have become popular candidates for cancer vaccine adjuvants. However, the mechanism by which such particles enhance immune responses remains unclear. Here, we report a porous silicon microparticle (PSM)-based cancer vaccine that greatly enhances cross-presentation and activates type I interferon (IFN-I) response in dendritic cells (DCs). PSM-loaded antigen exhibited prolonged early endosome localization and enhanced cross-presentation through both proteasome- and lysosome-dependent pathways. Phagocytosis of PSM by DCs induced IFN-I responses through a TRIF- and MAVS-dependent pathway. DCs primed with PSM-loaded HER2 antigen produced robust CD8 T cell-dependent anti-tumor immunity in mice bearing HER2+ mammary gland tumors. Importantly, this vaccination activated the tumor immune microenvironment with elevated levels of intra-tumor IFN-I and MHCII expression, abundant CD11c+ DC infiltration, and tumor-specific cytotoxic T cell responses. These findings highlight the potential of PSM as an immune adjuvant to potentiate DC-based cancer immunotherapy."},"25944298":{"title":"Conformational instability governed by disulfide bonds partitions the dominant from subdominant helper T-cell responses specific for HIV-1 envelope glycoprotein gp120.","abstract":"Most individuals infected with human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) generate a CD4(+) T-cell response that is dominated by a few epitopes. Immunodominance may be counterproductive because a broad CD4(+) T-cell response is associated with reduced viral load. Previous studies indicated that antigen three-dimensional structure controls antigen processing and presentation and therefore CD4(+) T-cell epitope dominance. Dominant epitopes occur adjacent to the V1-V2, V3, and V4 loops because proteolytic antigen processing in the loops promotes presentation of adjacent sequences. In this study, three gp120 (strain JR-FL) variants were constructed, in which deletions of single outer-domain disulfide bonds were expected to introduce local conformational flexibility and promote presentation of additional CD4(+) T-cell epitopes. Following mucosal immunization of C57BL/6 mice with wild-type or variant gp120 lacking the V3-flanking disulfide bond, the typical pattern of dominant epitopes was observed, suggesting that the disulfide bond posed no barrier to antigen presentation. In mice that lacked gamma interferon-inducible lysosomal thioreductase (GILT), proliferative responses to the typically dominant epitopes of gp120 were selectively depressed, and the dominance pattern was rearranged. Deletion of the V3-flanking disulfide bond or one of the V4-flanking disulfide bonds partially restored highly proliferative responses to the typically dominant epitopes. These results reveal an acute dependence of dominant CD4(+) T-cell responses on the native gp120 conformation."},"25957906":{"title":"Engineering of a novel adjuvant based on lipid-polymer hybrid nanoparticles: A quality-by-design approach.","abstract":"The purpose of this study was to design a novel and versatile adjuvant intended for mucosal vaccination based on biodegradable poly(DL-lactic-co-glycolic acid) (PLGA) nanoparticles (NPs) modified with the cationic surfactant dimethyldioctadecylammonium (DDA) bromide and the immunopotentiator trehalose-6,6'-dibehenate (TDB) (CAF01) to tailor humoral and cellular immunity characterized by antibodies and Th1/Th17 responses. Such responses are important for the protection against diseases caused by intracellular bacteria such as Chlamydia trachomatis and Mycobacterium tuberculosis. The hybrid NPs were engineered using an oil-in-water single emulsion method and a quality-by-design approach was adopted to define the optimal operating space (OOS). Four critical process parameters (CPPs) were identified, including the acetone concentration in the water phase, the stabilizer [polyvinylalcohol (PVA)] concentration, the lipid-to-total solid ratio, and the total concentration. The CPPs were linked to critical quality attributes consisting of the particle size, polydispersity index (PDI), zeta-potential, thermotropic phase behavior, yield and stability. A central composite face-centered design was performed followed by multiple linear regression analysis. The size, PDI, enthalpy of the phase transition and yield were successfully modeled, whereas the models for the zeta-potential and the stability were poor. Cryo-transmission electron microscopy revealed that the main structural effect on the nanoparticle architecture is caused by the use of PVA, and two different morphologies were identified: i) A PLGA core coated with one or several concentric lipid bilayers, and ii) a PLGA nanoshell encapsulating lipid membrane structures. The optimal formulation, identified from the OOS, was evaluated in vivo. The hybrid NPs induced antibody and Th1/Th17 immune responses that were similar in quality and magnitude to the response induced by DDA/TDB liposomes, showing that the adjuvant properties of DDA/TDB are maintained in the PLGA hybrid matrix. This study demonstrates the complexity of formulation design for the engineering of a hybrid lipid-polymer nanoparticle adjuvant."},"26006716":{"title":"Enhanced Control of Bladder-Associated Tumors Using Shrimp Anti-Lipopolysaccharide Factor (SALF) Antimicrobial Peptide as a Cancer Vaccine Adjuvant in Mice.","abstract":"Shrimp anti-lipopolysaccharide factor (SALF) is an antimicrobial peptide with reported anticancer activities, such as suppression of tumor progression. In this study, we prepared a potential cancer vaccine comprised of SALF in conjunction with the cell lysate of inactivated murine bladder carcinoma cells (MBT-2), and evaluated its efficacy in a mouse tumor model. Our study shows that SALF added to cell culture media inhibits growth progression of MBT-2, and that SALF together with inactivated MBT-2 lysate elevates the level of inflammasome activity, and modulates the levels of IL-1β, MCP-1, IL-6, IL-12, and TNF-α in mouse macrophages. Immunization of 7, 14, and 21 day-old mice with the vaccine prevented growth of MBT-2 cell-mediated tumors. The vaccine was found to enhance expression of T-cell, cytotoxic T cells, and NK cells in the immunized mice groups. Recruitment of macrophages, T-helper cells, and NK cells was enhanced, but levels of VEGF were decreased in immunized mice. This report provides empirical evidence that our SALF as vaccine adjuvant enhances antitumor immunity in mice."},"26017300":{"title":"Immunopotentiator-Loaded Polymeric Microparticles as Robust Adjuvant to Improve Vaccine Efficacy.","abstract":"Adjuvants are required to ensure the efficacy of subunit vaccines. Incorporating molecular immunopotentiators within particles could overcome drawbacks of molecular adjuvants (such as solubility and toxicity), and improve adjuvanticity of particles, achieving stronger adjuvant activity. Aim of this study is to evaluate the adjuvanticity of immunopotentiator-loaded polymeric particles for subunit vaccine. PLGA microparticles (PMPs) and imiquimod (TLR-7 ligand)-loaded PLGA microparticles (IPMPs) were prepared by SPG premix membrane emulsification. In vitro and in vivo studies were performed to their adjuvant activity, using ovalbumin and H5N1 influenza split vaccine as antigens. Incorporating imiquimod into microparticles significantly improved the efficacy of PLGA microparticles in activating BMDCs and pMΦs, and antigen uptake by pMΦs was also promoted. IPMPs showed stronger adjuvanticity to augment OVA-specific immune responses than PMPs. IgG subclass profiles and cytokine secretion levels by splenocytes indicated that IPMPs elicited more Th1-polarized immune response, compared to PMPs. In vivo study using H5N1 influenza split vaccine as antigen also confirmed the effects of IPMPs on antigen-specific cellular immunity. Considering adjuvanticity and safety profiles (PLGA and IMQ, both approved by FDA), we conclude that IMQ-loaded PLGA microparticles are promising robust adjuvant for subunit vaccines."},"26018536":{"title":"Therapeutic Transcutaneous Immunization with a Band-Aid Vaccine Resolves Experimental Otitis Media.","abstract":"Transcutaneous immunization (TCI) is a noninvasive strategy to induce protective immune responses. We describe TCI with a band-aid vaccine placed on the postauricular skin to exploit the unique organization of the stratum corneum and to promote the development of immune responses to resolve active experimental otitis media due to nontypeable Haemophilus influenzae (NTHI). This therapeutic immunization strategy induced significantly earlier resolution of middle ear fluid and rapid eradication of both planktonic and mucosal biofilm-resident NTHI within 7 days after receipt of the first immunizing band-aid vaccine. Efficacy was ascribed to the homing of immunogen-bearing cutaneous dendritic cells to the nasal-associated lymphoid tissue, induction of polyfunctional CD4(+) T cells, and the presence of immunogen-specific IgM and IgG within the middle ear. TCI using band-aid vaccines could expand the use of traditional parenteral preventative vaccines to include treatment of active otitis media, in addition to other diseases of the respiratory tract due to NTHI."},"26031451":{"title":"Identification and characterisation of T-cell epitopes for incorporation into dendritic cell-delivered Listeria vaccines.","abstract":"Dendritic cells loaded with antigenic peptides, because of their safety and robust immune stimulation, would be ideal for induction of immunity to protect against listeriosis. However, there is no currently accepted method to predict which peptides derived from the Listeria proteome might confer protection. While elution of peptides from MHC molecules after Listeria infection yields high-affinity immune-dominant epitopes, these individual epitopes did not reliably confer Listeria protection. Instead we applied bioinformatic predictions of MHC class I and II epitopes to generate antigenic peptides that were then formulated with Advax™, a novel polysaccharide particulate adjuvant able to enhance cross-presentation prior to being screened for their ability to induce protective T-cell responses. A combination of at least four intermediate strength MHC-I binding epitopes and one weak MHC-II binding epitope when expressed in a single peptide sequence and formulated with Advax adjuvant induced a potent T-cell response and high TNF-α and IL-12 production by dendritic cells resulting in robust listeriosis protection in susceptible mice. This T-cell vaccine approach might be useful for the design of vaccines to protect against listeriosis or other intracellular infections."},"26168493":{"title":"Immunopotentiator from Pantoea agglomerans Prevents Atopic Dermatitis Induced by Dermatophagoides farinae Extract in NC/Nga Mouse.","abstract":"Pantoea agglomerans LPS (immunopotentiator from Pantoea agglomerans 1: IP-PA1) has been reported to have anti-inflammatory effects in in vitro and in vivo models. The aim of the present study was to investigate the effects of orally-administered IP-PA1 on atopic dermatitis (AD) symptoms induced by Dermatophagoides farinae body extract (DFE) in NC/Nga mice. Using the NC/Nga AD murine model, mice were orally administered 0.1% (High) or 0.01% (Low) water-containing IP-PA1. Skin lesion assessment and blood collection from the caudal vein was performed on days 0, 7, 21 and 31. On day 31, all mice were sacrificed and blood, skin, spleen, as well as intestine samples, were obtained. Assessment score of the skin lesion and serum immunoglobulin E (IgE) level of both IP-PA1 groups were significantly lower than that of the DFE group on days 14 and 21. The serum periostin and thymus and activation-regulated chemokine (TARC) level of IP-PA1-Low group was significantly lower than that of the DFE group on day 31. On histological examination of the skin, hyperplasia of epidermal and dermal layers and infiltration of inflammatory cells were suppressed by IP-PA1 administration. Deposition of periostin was observed in the DFE group skin tissue. Moreover, the CD4(+)/CD8(+) ratio of splenic T-cells increased by IP-PA1 administration. IP-PA1 administration may have an inhibitory effect on AD skin lesions."},"26175894":{"title":"From mouse to man: safety, immunogenicity and efficacy of a candidate leishmaniasis vaccine LEISH-F3+GLA-SE.","abstract":"Key antigens of Leishmania species identified in the context of host responses in Leishmania-exposed individuals from disease-endemic areas were prioritized for the development of a subunit vaccine against visceral leishmaniasis (VL), the most deadly form of leishmaniasis. Two Leishmania proteins-nucleoside hydrolase and a sterol 24-c-methyltransferase, each of which are protective in animal models of VL when properly adjuvanted- were produced as a single recombinant fusion protein NS (LEISH-F3) for ease of antigen production and broad coverage of a heterogeneous major histocompatibility complex population. When formulated with glucopyranosyl lipid A-stable oil-in-water nanoemulsion (GLA-SE), a Toll-like receptor 4 TH1 (T helper 1) promoting nanoemulsion adjuvant, the LEISH-F3 polyprotein induced potent protection against both L. donovani and L. infantum in mice, measured as significant reductions in liver parasite burdens. A robust immune response to each component of the vaccine with polyfunctional CD4 TH1 cell responses characterized by production of antigen-specific interferon-γ, tumor necrosis factor and interleukin-2 (IL-2), and low levels of IL-5 and IL-10 was induced in immunized mice. We also demonstrate that CD4 T cells, but not CD8 T cells, are sufficient for protection against L. donovani infection in immunized mice. Based on the sum of preclinical data, we prepared GMP materials and performed a phase 1 clinical study with LEISH-F3+GLA-SE in healthy, uninfected adults in the United States. The vaccine candidate was shown to be safe and induced a strong antigen-specific immune response, as evidenced by cytokine and immunoglobulin subclass data. These data provide a strong rationale for additional trials in Leishmania-endemic countries in populations vulnerable to VL."},"26177480":{"title":"Delta Inulin Adjuvant Enhances Plasmablast Generation, Expression of Activation-Induced Cytidine Deaminase and B-Cell Affinity Maturation in Human Subjects Receiving Seasonal Influenza Vaccine.","abstract":"There is a major need for new adjuvants to improve the efficacy of seasonal and pandemic influenza vaccines. Advax is a novel polysaccharide adjuvant based on delta inulin that has been shown to enhance the immunogenicity of influenza vaccine in animal models and human clinical trials. To better understand the mechanism for this enhancement, we sought to assess its effect on the plasmablast response in human subjects. This pilot study utilised cryopreserved 7 day post-vaccination (7dpv) peripheral blood mononuclear cell samples obtained from a subset of 25 adult subjects from the FLU006-12 trial who had been immunized intramuscularly with a standard dose of 2012 trivalent inactivated influenza vaccine (TIV) alone (n=9 subjects) or combined with 5mg (n=8) or 10mg (n=8) of Advax adjuvant. Subjects receiving Advax adjuvant had increased 7dpv plasmablasts, which in turn exhibited a 2-3 fold higher rate of non-silent mutations in the B-cell receptor CDR3 region associated with higher expression of activation-induced cytidine deaminase (AID), the major enzyme controlling BCR affinity maturation. Together, these data suggest that Advax adjuvant enhances influenza immunity in immunized subjects via multiple mechanisms including increased plasmablast generation, AID expression and CDR3 mutagenesis resulting in enhanced BCR affinity maturation and increased production of high avidity antibody. How Advax adjuvant achieves these beneficial effects on plasmablasts remains the subject of ongoing investigation. Australia New Zealand Clinical Trials Register ACTRN12612000709842 https://www.anzctr.org.au/Trial/Registration/TrialReview.aspx?id=362709."},"26220604":{"title":"Multifunctional T Lymphocytes Generated After Therapy With an Antitumor Gallotanin-Rich Normalized Fraction Are Related to Primary Tumor Size Reduction in a Breast Cancer Model.","abstract":"Natural compounds are promising sources for anticancer therapies because of their multifunctional activity and low toxicity. Although the host immune response (IR) is clearly implicated in tumor control, the relationship between natural therapies and IR has not yet been elucidated. The present work evaluates IR induction after treatment with a gallotannin-rich fraction from Caesalpinia spinosa (P2Et). Breast tumor 4T1 cells were used to evaluate antitumor properties and IR activation. Apoptosis and expression of immunogenic cell death (ICD) markers were assessed in vitro, whereas IR and postvaccination tumor evolution were assessed in vivo. P2Et fraction induced apoptotic cell death, displaying phosphatidylserine externalization and DNA fragmentation. ICD markers such as calreticulin, high-mobility group box 1 translocation from nuclei to cytoplasm, and ATP secretion were observed. Primary tumor control was improved by vaccination with P2Et-pretreated 4T1 cells (t-P2Et), yielding long-lasting ex vivo multifunctional CD4(+) and CD8(+) T lymphocytes (interleukin [IL]-2(+), tumor necrosis factor [TNF]-α(+), interferon [IFN]-γ(+)) that secrete IL-2, TNF-α, IL-4, IL-5, and IFN-γ after specific 4T1 cell stimulation. The present study constitutes the first demonstration of a long-lasting antitumor IR induction and primary tumor reduction induced by a complex natural fraction. These data reveal the potential use of this fraction as an adjuvant in breast cancer treatment."},"26223660":{"title":"Flagellin-dependent TLR5/caveolin-1 as a promising immune activator in immunosenescence.","abstract":"The age-associated decline of immune responses causes high susceptibility to infections and reduced vaccine efficacy in the elderly. However, the mechanisms underlying age-related deficits are unclear. Here, we found that the expression and signaling of flagellin (FlaB)-dependent Toll-like receptor 5 (TLR5), unlike the other TLRs, were well maintained in old macrophages, similar to young macrophages. The expression and activation of TLR5/MyD88, but not TLR4, were sensitively regulated by the upregulation of caveolin-1 in old macrophages through direct interaction. This interaction was also confirmed using macrophages from caveolin-1 or MyD88 knockout mice. Because TLR5 and caveolin-1 were well expressed in major old tissues including lung, skin, intestine, and spleen, we analyzed in vivo immune responses via a vaccine platform with FlaB as a mucosal adjuvant for the pneumococcal surface protein A (PspA) against Streptococcus pneumoniae infection in young and aged mice. The FlaB-PspA fusion protein induced a significantly higher level of PspA-specific IgG and IgA responses and demonstrated a high protective efficacy against a lethal challenge with live S. pneumoniae in aged mice. These results suggest that caveolin-1/TLR5 signaling plays a key role in age-associated innate immune responses and that FlaB-PspA stimulation of TLR5 may be a new strategy for a mucosal vaccine adjuvant against pneumococcal infection in the elderly."},"26232344":{"title":"Advax delta inulin adjuvant overcomes immune immaturity in neonatal mice thereby allowing single-dose influenza vaccine protection.","abstract":"Neonates are at high risk for influenza morbidity and mortality due to immune immaturity and lack of priming by prior influenza virus exposure. Inactivated influenza vaccines are ineffective in infants under six months and to provide protection in older children generally require two doses given a month apart. This leaves few options for rapid protection of infants, e.g. during an influenza pandemic. We investigated whether Advax™, a novel polysaccharide adjuvant based on delta inulin microparticles could help overcome neonatal immune hypo-responsiveness. We first tested whether it was possible to use Advax to obtain single-dose vaccine protection of neonatal pups against lethal influenza infection. Inactivated influenza A/H1N1 vaccine (iH1N1) combined with Advax™ adjuvant administered as a single subcutaneous immunization to 7-day-old mouse pups significantly enhanced serum influenza-specific IgM, IgG1, IgG2a and IgG2b levels and was associated with a 3-4 fold increase in the frequency of splenic influenza-specific IgM and IgG antibody secreting cells. Pups immunized with Advax had significantly higher splenocyte influenza-stimulated IFN-γ, IL-2, IL-4, and IL-10 production by CBA and a 3-10 fold higher frequency of IFN-γ, IL-2, IL-4 or IL-17 secreting T cells by ELISPOT. Immunization with iH1N1+Advax induced robust protection of pups against virus challenge 3 weeks later, whereas pups immunized with iH1N1 antigen alone had no protection. Protection by Advax-adjuvanted iH1N1 was dependent on memory B cells rather than memory T cells, with no protection in neonatal μMT mice that are B-cell deficient. Hence, Advax adjuvant overcame neonatal immune hypo-responsiveness and enabled single-dose protection of pups against otherwise lethal influenza infection, thereby supporting ongoing development of Advax™ as a neonatal vaccine adjuvant."},"26305669":{"title":"Cyclophilin A as a potential genetic adjuvant to improve HIV-1 Gag DNA vaccine immunogenicity by eliciting broad and long-term Gag-specific cellular immunity in mice.","abstract":"Previous research has shown that host Cyclophilin A (CyPA) can promote dendritic cell maturation and the subsequent innate immune response when incorporated into an HIV-1 Gag protein to circumvent the resistance of dendritic cells to HIV-1 infection. This led us to hypothesize that CyPA may improve HIV-1 Gag-specific vaccine immunogenicity via binding with Gag antigen. The adjuvant effect of CyPA was evaluated using a DNA vaccine with single or dual expression cassettes. Mouse studies indicated that CyPA specifically and markedly promoted HIV-1 Gag-specific cellular immunity but not an HIV-1 Env-specific cellular response. The Gag/CyPA dual expression cassettes stimulated a greater Gag-specific cellular immune response, than Gag immunization alone. Furthermore, CyPA induced a broad Gag-specific T cell response and strong cellular immunity that lasted up to 5 months. In addition, CyPA skewed to cellular rather than humoral immunity. To investigate the mechanisms of the adjuvant effect, site-directed mutagenesis in CyPA, including active site residues H54Q and F60A resulted in mutants that were co-expressed with Gag in dual cassettes. The immune response to this vaccine was analyzed in vivo. Interestingly, the wild type CyPA markedly increased Gag cellular immunity, but the H54Q and F60A mutants drastically reduced CyPA adjuvant activation. Therefore, we suggest that the adjuvant effect of CyPA was based on Gag-CyPA-specific interactions. Herein, we report that Cyclophilin A can augment HIV-1 Gag-specific cellular immunity as a genetic adjuvant in multiplex DNA immunization strategies, and that activity of this adjuvant is specific, broad, long-term, and based on Gag-CyPA interaction."},"26305793":{"title":"Evaluating the A-Subunit of the Heat-Labile Toxin (LT) As an Immunogen and a Protective Antigen Against Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli (ETEC).","abstract":"Diarrheal illness contributes to malnutrition, stunted growth, impaired cognitive development, and high morbidity rates in children worldwide. Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli (ETEC) is a major contributor to this diarrheal disease burden. ETEC cause disease in the small intestine by means of colonization factors and by production of a heat-labile enterotoxin (LT) and/or a small non-immunogenic heat-stable enterotoxin (ST). Overall, the majority of ETEC produce both ST and LT. LT induces secretion via an enzymatically active A-subunit (LT-A) and a pentameric, cell-binding B-subunit (LT-B). The importance of anti-LT antibodies has been demonstrated in multiple clinical and epidemiological studies, and a number of potential ETEC vaccine candidates have included LT-B as an important immunogen. However, there is limited information about the potential contribution of LT-A to development of protective immunity. In the current study, we evaluate the immune response against the A-subunit of LT as well as the A-subunit's potential as a protective antigen when administered alone or in combination with the B-subunit of LT. We evaluated human sera from individuals challenged with a prototypic wild-type ETEC strain as well as sera from individuals living in an ETEC endemic area for the presence of anti-LT, anti-LT-A and anti-LT-B antibodies. In both cases, a significant number of individuals intentionally or endemically infected with ETEC developed antibodies against both LT subunits. In addition, animals immunized with the recombinant proteins developed robust antibody responses that were able to neutralize the enterotoxic and cytotoxic effects of native LT by blocking binding and entry into cells (anti-LT-B) or the intracellular enzymatic activity of the toxin (anti-LT-A). Moreover, antibodies to both LT subunits acted synergistically to neutralize the holotoxin when combined. Taken together, these data support the inclusion of both LT-A and LT-B in prospective vaccines against ETEC."},"26319029":{"title":"The plasticizer dibutyl phthalate (DBP) potentiates chemical allergen-induced THP-1 activation.","abstract":"Recent studies suggest that phthalates may have a role in the development of allergic diseases, probably due to an adjuvant effect. The present study aimed to investigate the possible adjuvant effect of dibutyl phthalate (DBP) in two in vitro models of contact-allergen induced cell activation, namely the NCTC 2544 IL-18 assay and the THP-1 activation assay. Results show no adjuvant effect in the human keratinocyte cell line NCTC 2544, indicated by lack of increase in interleukin 18 (IL-18) production after exposure to p-Phenylenediamine (PPD) in association with DBP. On the contrary, increased upregulation of CD86 and interleukin 8 (IL-8) production were observed in THP-1 cells exposed to combinations of citral (Cit) or imidazolidinyl urea (IMZ) with DBP, indicative of an adjuvant effect. Additionally, higher production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in THP-1 cells treated with DBP associated to Cit supports that oxidative stress could be part of the molecular mechanism of the observed adjuvant effect. In conclusion, we demonstrate that DBP presents in vitro an adjuvant effect for immune stimulation in dendritic cells but not in keratinocytes. Future studies are necessary to elucidate the precise mechanism underlying the adjuvant effect of DBP in vitro and in vivo."},"26345468":{"title":"The influence of TLR4 agonist lipopolysaccharides on hepatocellular carcinoma cells and the feasibility of its application in treating liver cancer.","abstract":"This study was designed to explore the influence of Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) agonist lipopolysaccharides (LPS) on liver cancer cell and the feasibility to perform liver cancer adjuvant therapy. Human liver cancer cell lines HepG2, H7402, and PLC/PRF/5 were taken as models, and the expression of TLRs mRNA was detected by real time-polymerase chain reaction method semiquantitatively. WST-1 method was used to detect the influence of LPS on the proliferation ability of liver cancer cells; propidium iodide (PI) single staining and Annexin V/PI double staining were used to test the influence of LPS on the cell cycle and apoptosis, respectively, on human liver cancer cell line H7402. Fluorescent quantitative polymerase chain reaction and Western blot method were used to determine the change of expression of Cyclin D1. The results demonstrated that most TLRs were expressed in liver cancer cells; stimulating TLR4 by LPS could upregulate TLR4 mRNA and the protein level, activate NF-κB signaling pathway downstream of TLR4, and mediate the generation of inflammatory factors IL-6, IL-8, and TNF-α; LPS was found to be able to strengthen the proliferation ability of liver cancer cells, especially H7402 cells; the expression of Cyclin D1 rose and H7402 cells were promoted to transit from G1 stage to S stage under the stimulation of LPS, but cell apoptosis was not affected. It was also found that LPS was able to activate signal transducer and activator of transcription -3 (STAT3) signaling pathway in H7402 cells and meanwhile significantly increase the initiation activity of STAT3; proliferation promoting effect of LPS to liver cancer cells remarkably lowered once STAT3 was blocked or inhibited. Thus, TLR4 agonist LPS is proved to be able to induce liver cancer cells to express inflammation factors and mediate liver cancer cell proliferation and generation of multidrug resistance by activating the cyclooxygenase-2/prostaglandin signal axis as well as the STAT3 pathway."},"26379666":{"title":"Characterization of the Antigen-Specific CD4(+) T Cell Response Induced by Prime-Boost Strategies with CAF01 and CpG Adjuvants Administered by the Intranasal and Subcutaneous Routes.","abstract":"The design of heterologous prime-boost vaccine combinations that optimally shape the immune response is of critical importance for the development of next generation vaccines. Here, we tested different prime-boost combinations using the tuberculosis vaccine antigen H56 with CAF01 or CpG ODN 1826 adjuvants, administered by the parenteral and nasal routes. Using peptide-MHC class II tetramers, antigen-specific CD4(+) T cells were tracked following primary and booster immunizations. Both parenteral priming with H56 plus CAF01 and nasal priming with H56 plus CpG elicited significant expansion of CD4(+) tetramer-positive T cells in the spleen; however, only parenterally primed cells responded to booster immunization. Subcutaneous (SC) priming with H56 and CAF01 followed by nasal boosting with H56 and CpG showed the greater expansion of CD4(+) tetramer-positive T cells in the spleen and lungs compared to all the other homologous and heterologous prime-boost combinations. Nasal boosting exerted a recruitment of primed CD4(+) T cells into lungs that was stronger in subcutaneously than nasally primed mice, in accordance with different chemokine receptor expression induced by primary immunization. These data demonstrate that SC priming is fundamental for eliciting CD4(+) T cells that can be efficiently boosted by the nasal route and results in the recruitment of antigen-experienced cells into the lungs. Combination of different vaccine formulations and routes of delivery for priming and boosting is a strategic approach for improving and directing vaccine-induced immune responses."},"26394776":{"title":"Intranasal vaccination with killed Leishmania amazonensis promastigotes antigen (LaAg) associated with CAF01 adjuvant induces partial protection in BALB/c mice challenged with Leishmania (infantum) chagasi.","abstract":"The CAF01 adjuvant has previously been shown to be safe for human use and to be a potent adjuvant for several vaccine antigens. In the present work, we sought to optimize the Leishmania amazonensis antigens (LaAg) intranasal vaccine in an attempt to enhance the protective immune responses against Leishmania (infantum) chagasi by using the CAF01 association. LaAg/CAF01 vaccinated mice that were challenged 15 days after booster dose with L. (infantum) chagasi showed a significant reduction in their parasite burden in both the spleen and liver, which is associated with an increase in specific production of IFN-γ and nitrite, and a decrease in IL-4 production. In addition, LaAg/CAF01 intranasal delivery was able to increase lymphoproliferative immune responses after parasite antigen recall. These results suggest the feasibility of using the intranasal route for the delivery of crude antigens and of a human-compatible adjuvant against visceral leishmaniasis."},"26453448":{"title":"Perioperative treatment with the new synthetic TLR-4 agonist GLA-SE reduces cancer metastasis without adverse effects.","abstract":"The use of TLR agonists as an anti-cancer treatment is gaining momentum given their capacity to activate various host cellular responses through the secretion of inflammatory cytokines and type-I interferons. It is now also recognized that the perioperative period is a window of opportunity for various interventions aiming at reducing the risk of cancer metastases-the major cause of cancer related death. However, immune-stimulatory approach has not been used perioperatively given several contraindications to surgery. To overcome these obstacles, in this study, we used the newly introduced, fully synthetic TLR-4 agonist, Glucopyranosyl Lipid-A (GLA-SE), in various models of cancer metastases, and in the context of acute stress or surgery. Without exerting evident adverse effects, a single systemic administration of GLA-SE rapidly and dose dependently elevated both innate and adaptive immunity in the circulation, lungs and the lymphatic system. Importantly, GLA-SE treatment led to reduced metastatic development of a mammary adenocarcinoma and a colon carcinoma by approximately 40-75% in F344 rats and BALB/c mice, respectively, at least partly through elevating marginating-pulmonary NK cell cytotoxicity. GLA-SE is safe and well tolerated in humans, and currently is used as an adjuvant in phase-II clinical trials. Given that the TLR-4 receptor and its signaling cascade is highly conserved throughout evolution, our current results suggest that GLA-SE may be a promising immune stimulatory agent in the context of oncological surgeries, aiming to reduce long-term cancer recurrence."},"26494626":{"title":"Peptide-specific T helper cells identified by MHC class II tetramers differentiate into several subtypes upon immunization with CAF01 adjuvanted H56 tuberculosis vaccine formulation.","abstract":"CD4(+) T-cell priming is an essential step in vaccination due to the key role of T helper cells in driving both effector and memory immune responses. Here we have characterized in C57BL/6 mice the T helper subtype differentiation among tetramer-specific CD4(+) T cells primed by subcutaneous immunization with the tuberculosis vaccine antigen H56 plus the adjuvant CAF01. Peptide-specific population identified by the MHC class II tetramers differentiated into several T helper subtypes upon antigen encounter, and the frequency of subpopulations differed according to their localization. Th1 (CXCR3(+)T-bet(+)), Tfh (CXCR5(+)PD-1(+)Bcl-6(+)) and RORγt(+) cells were induced in the lymph nodes draining the immunization site (dLN), while Th1 cells were the predominant subtype in the spleen. In addition, CD4(+) T cells co-expressing multiple T-cell lineage-specifying transcription factors were also detected. In the lungs, most of the tetramer-binding T cells were RORγt(+), while Tfh and Th1 cells were absent. After boosting, a higher frequency of tetramer-binding cells co-expressing the markers CD44 and CD127 was detected compared to primed cells, and cells showed a prevalent Th1 phenotype in both dLN and spleens, while Tfh cells were significantly reduced. In conclusion, these data demonstrate that parenteral immunization with H56 and CAF01 elicits a distribution of antigen-specific CD4(+) T cells in both lymphoid tissues and lungs, and gives rise to multiple T helper subtypes, that differ depending on localization and following reactivation."},"26540197":{"title":"Immunization with a Double-Mutant (R192G/L211A) of the Heat-Labile Enterotoxin of Escherichia coli Offers Partial Protection against Campylobacter jejuni in an Adult Mouse Intestinal Colonization Model.","abstract":"We have previously shown that antibodies to cholera toxin (CT) reacted with the major outer membrane proteins (MOMPs) from Campylobacter jejuni strains on Western blot. Further, oral immunization with CT significantly protected against challenge with C. jejuni in an adult mouse colonization model of infection. CT and the heat-labile enterotoxin (LT) of enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli are structurally and functionally related. LT and its mutants including the double-mutant LT (R192G/L211A) (dmLT), are powerful mucosal adjuvants. Unlike LT which is reactogenic, dmLT has been shown to be safe for human use. In the current study, we determined whether rabbit anti-dmLT antibodies reacted with MOMPs from C. jejuni strains and whether immunization with dmLT would afford protection against C. jejuni. On Western blot, the MOMPs from C. jejuni 48 (Penner serotype O:19), C. jejuni 75 (O:3) and C. jejuni 111 (O:1,44) were probed with rabbit antibodies to dmLT or LT-E112K (a non-toxic LT mutant), which showed a lack of reaction. Adult BALB/c mice were orally immunized with dmLT and orally challenged with C. jejuni 48 or 111. Protection from colonization with the challenge bacteria was studied by enumerating Campylobacter colonies in feces daily for 9 days. Vaccination produced robust serum and stool antibody responses to dmLT and no antibody responses to C. jejuni MOMP. Vaccinated mice showed reduced colonization and excretion of both challenge strains compared to control mice. However, the differences were not statistically significant. The protective efficacy of the dmLT vaccine varied from 9.1% to 54.5%. The lack of cross-reaction between the MOMP and dmLT suggests that protection is not mediated by cross-reacting antibodies, but may be due to activation of innate immunity. As dmLT is safe for humans, it could be incorporated into a C. jejuni vaccine to enhance its efficacy."},"26541135":{"title":"Mucosal delivery switches the response to an adjuvanted tuberculosis vaccine from systemic TH1 to tissue-resident TH17 responses without impacting the protective efficacy.","abstract":"Pulmonary tuberculosis (TB) remains one of the leading causes of infectious disease death despite widespread usage of the BCG vaccine. A number of new TB vaccines have moved into clinical evaluation to replace or boost the BCG vaccine including ID93+GLA-SE, an adjuvanted subunit vaccine. The vast majority of new TB vaccines in trials are delivered parenterally even though intranasal delivery can augment lung-resident immunity and protective efficacy in small animal models. Parenteral immunization with the adjuvanted subunit vaccine ID93+GLA-SE elicits robust TH1 immunity and protection against aerosolized Mycobacterium tuberculosis in mice and guinea pigs. Here we describe the immunogenicity and efficacy of this vaccine when delivered intranasally. Intranasal delivery switches the CD4 T cell response from a TH1 to a TH17 dominated tissue-resident response with increased frequencies of ID93-specific cells in both the lung tissue and at the lung surface. Surprisingly these changes do not affect the protective efficacy of ID93+GLA-SE. Unlike intramuscular immunization, ID93+GLA does not require the squalene-based oil-in-water emulsion SE to elicit protective CD4 T cells when delivered intranasally. Finally we demonstrate that TNF and the IL-17 receptor are dispensable for the efficacy of the intranasal vaccine suggesting an alternative mechanism of protection."},"26571311":{"title":"Schistosomiasis vaccine candidate Sm14/GLA-SE: Phase 1 safety and immunogenicity clinical trial in healthy, male adults.","abstract":"Safety and immunogenicity of a recombinant 14kDa, fatty acid-binding protein(FABP) from Schistosoma mansoni (rSm14) were evaluated through an open, non-placebo-controlled, dose-standardized trial, performed at a single research site. The vaccine was formulated with glucopyranosyl lipid A (GLA) adjuvant in an oil-in-water emulsion (SE) and investigated in 20 male volunteers from a non-endemic area for schistosomiasis in the state of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. Fifty microgram rSm14 with 10 μg GLA-SE (rSm14/GLA-SE)/dose were given intramuscularly three times with 30-day intervals. Participants were assessed clinically, biochemically and immunologically for up to 120 days. Participants were screened for inclusion by physical examination, haematology and blood chemistry; then followed to assess adverse events and immunogenicity. Sera were tested for IgG (total and isotypes) and IgE. T cell induction of cytokines IL-2, IL-5, IL-10, IFNγ and TNFα was assessed by Milliplex kit and flow cytometry. The investigational product showed high tolerability; some self-limited, mild adverse events were observed during and after vaccine administration. Significant increases in Sm14-specific total IgG, IgG1 and IgG3 were observed 30 days after the first vaccination with specific IgG2 and IgG4 after 60 days. An increase in IgE antibodies was not observed at any time point. The IgG response was augmented after the second dose and 88% of all vaccinated subjects had developed high anti-Sm14 IgG titres 90 days after the first injection. From day 60 and onwards, there was an increase in CD4(+) T cells producing single cytokines, particularly TNFα and IL-2, with no significant increase of multi-functional TH1 cells. Clinical trial data on tolerability and specific immune responses after vaccination of adult, male volunteers in a non-endemic area for schistosomiasis with rSm14/GLA-SE, support this product as a safe, strongly immunogenic vaccine against schistosomiasis paving the way for follow-up Phase 2 trials. Study registration ID: NCT01154049 at http://www.clinicaltrials.gov."},"26656121":{"title":"Protection and Long-Lived Immunity Induced by the ID93/GLA-SE Vaccine Candidate against a Clinical Mycobacterium tuberculosis Isolate.","abstract":"Mycobacterium tuberculosis HN878 represents a virulent clinical strain from the W-Beijing family, which has been tested in small animal models in order to study its virulence and its induction of host immune responses following infection. This isolate causes death and extensive lung pathology in infected C57BL/6 mice, whereas lab-adapted strains, such as M. tuberculosis H37Rv, do not. The use of this clinically relevant isolate of M. tuberculosis increases the possibilities of assessing the long-lived efficacy of tuberculosis vaccines in a relatively inexpensive small animal model. This model will also allow for the use of knockout mouse strains to critically examine key immunological factors responsible for long-lived, vaccine-induced immunity in addition to vaccine-mediated prevention of pulmonary immunopathology. In this study, we show that the ID93/glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant (GLA)-stable emulsion (SE) tuberculosis vaccine candidate, currently in human clinical trials, is able to elicit protection against M. tuberculosis HN878 by reducing the bacterial burden in the lung and spleen and by preventing the extensive lung pathology induced by this pathogen in C57BL/6 mice."},"26689376":{"title":"In situ vaccination with cowpea mosaic virus nanoparticles suppresses metastatic cancer.","abstract":"Nanotechnology has tremendous potential to contribute to cancer immunotherapy. The 'in situ vaccination' immunotherapy strategy directly manipulates identified tumours to overcome local tumour-mediated immunosuppression and subsequently stimulates systemic antitumour immunity to treat metastases. We show that inhalation of self-assembling virus-like nanoparticles from cowpea mosaic virus (CPMV) reduces established B16F10 lung melanoma and simultaneously generates potent systemic antitumour immunity against poorly immunogenic B16F10 in the skin. Full efficacy required Il-12, Ifn-γ, adaptive immunity and neutrophils. Inhaled CPMV nanoparticles were rapidly taken up by and activated neutrophils in the tumour microenvironment as an important part of the antitumour immune response. CPMV also exhibited clear treatment efficacy and systemic antitumour immunity in ovarian, colon, and breast tumour models in multiple anatomic locations. CPMV nanoparticles are stable, nontoxic, modifiable with drugs and antigens, and their nanomanufacture is highly scalable. These properties, combined with their inherent immunogenicity and demonstrated efficacy against a poorly immunogenic tumour, make CPMV an attractive and novel immunotherapy against metastatic cancer."},"26731269":{"title":"The TLR4 Agonist Vaccine Adjuvant, GLA-SE, Requires Canonical and Atypical Mechanisms of Action for TH1 Induction.","abstract":"The Toll-like receptor 4 agonist glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant formulated in a stable emulsion (GLA-SE) promotes strong TH1 and balanced IgG1/IgG2 responses to protein vaccine antigens. This enhanced immunity is sufficient to provide protection against many diseases including tuberculosis and leishmaniasis. To better characterize the adjuvant action it is important to understand how the different cytokines and transcription factors contribute to the initiation of immunity. In the present study using T-bet-/- and IL-12-/- mice and a blocking anti-IFNαR1 monoclonal antibody, we define mechanisms of adjuvant activity of GLA-SE. In accordance with previous studies of TLR4 agonist based adjuvants, we found that TH1 induction via GLA-SE was completely dependent upon T-bet, a key transcription factor for IFNγ production and TH1 differentiation. Consistent with this, deficiency of IL-12, a cytokine canonical to TH1 induction, ablated TH1 induction via GLA-SE. Finally we demonstrate that the innate immune response to GLA-SE, including rapid IFNγ production by memory CD8+ T cells and NK cells, was contingent on type I interferon, a cytokine group whose association with TH1 induction is contextual, and that they contributed to the adjuvant activity of GLA-SE."},"26765968":{"title":"A novel rabies vaccine based-on toll-like receptor 3 (TLR3) agonist PIKA adjuvant exhibiting excellent safety and efficacy in animal studies.","abstract":"Vaccination alone is not sufficiently effective to protect human from post-exposure rabies virus infection due to delayed generation of rabies virus neutralizing antibodies and weak cellular immunity. Therefore, it is vital to develop safer and more efficacious vaccine against rabies. PIKA, a stabilized chemical analog of double-stranded RNA that interacts with TLR3, was employed as adjuvant of rabies vaccine. The efficacy and safety of PIKA rabies vaccine were evaluated. The results showed that PIKA rabies vaccine enhanced both humoral and cellular immunity. After viral challenge, PIKA rabies vaccine protected 70-80% of animals, while the survival rate of non-adjuvant vaccine group (control) was 20-30%. According to the results of toxicity tests, PIKA and PIKA rabies vaccine are shown to be well tolerated in mice. Thus, this study indicates that PIKA rabies vaccine is an effective and safe vaccine which has the potential to develop next-generation rabies vaccine and encourage the start of clinical studies."},"26791076":{"title":"Different human vaccine adjuvants promote distinct antigen-independent immunological signatures tailored to different pathogens.","abstract":"The majority of vaccine candidates in clinical development are highly purified proteins and peptides relying on adjuvants to enhance and/or direct immune responses. Despite the acknowledged need for novel adjuvants, there are still very few adjuvants in licensed human vaccines. A vast number of adjuvants have been tested pre-clinically using different experimental conditions, rendering it impossible to directly compare their activity. We performed a head-to-head comparison of five different adjuvants Alum, MF59®, GLA-SE, IC31® and CAF01 in mice and combined these with antigens from M. tuberculosis, influenza, and chlamydia to test immune-profiles and efficacy in infection models using standardized protocols. Regardless of antigen, each adjuvant had a unique immunological signature suggesting that the adjuvants have potential for different disease targets. Alum increased antibody titers; MF59® induced strong antibody and IL-5 responses; GLA-SE induced antibodies and Th1; CAF01 showed a mixed Th1/Th17 profile and IC31® induced strong Th1 responses. MF59® and GLA-SE were strong inducers of influenza HI titers while CAF01, GLA-SE and IC31® enhanced protection to TB and chlamydia. Importantly, this is the first extensive attempt to categorize clinical-grade adjuvants based on their immune profiles and protective efficacy to inform a rational development of next generation vaccines for human use."},"26795365":{"title":"Enhanced humoral response to influenza vaccine in aged mice with a novel adjuvant, rOv-ASP-1.","abstract":"Immunization is the best way to prevent seasonal epidemics and pandemics of influenza. There are two kinds of influenza vaccines available in the United States: an inactivated vaccine (TIV) and an attenuated vaccine; however, only TIV is approved for immunization of the elderly population. While the aged population has the highest rate of influenza vaccination, the protective efficacy is low as evidenced by elderly individuals having the highest mortality associated with influenza. Recently, we reported that an adjuvant derived from the helminth parasite Onchocerca volvulus, named O. volvulus activation-associated secreted protein-1 (Ov-ASP-1), can significantly enhance the protective efficacy of an inactivated vaccine (TIV) in young adult mice. In the current study, we examined whether this recombinant Ov-ASP-1 (rOv-ASP-1) can enhance the efficacy of TIV in aged mice as well. While primary immunization with TIV alone produced only a low level of influenza-specific antibodies (total IgG, IgG1, and IgG2c) in aged mice, the antibody levels were significantly increased after immunization with TIV+rOv-ASP-1. More importantly, the level of the total IgG in aged mice administered TIV+rOv-ASP-1 was comparable to that of young adult mice immunized with TIV alone. Co-administration of rOv-ASP-1 induced a low level of cross-reactive antibody and enhanced the protective efficacy of TIV in aged mice, reflected by significantly increased survival after challenge with a heterologous influenza virus. rOv-ASP-1 was also superior to the conventional adjuvant alum in inducing specific IgG after TIV immunization in aged mice, and in conferring protection after challenge. These results demonstrate that rOv-ASP-1 may serve as a potential adjuvant for influenza vaccine to improve the efficacy of protection in the elderly."},"26811064":{"title":"Combination of the toll like receptor agonist and α-Galactosylceramide as an efficient adjuvant for cancer vaccine.","abstract":"DNA vaccines have emerged as an attractive approach for the generation of cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL). In our previous study, we found That Toll like receptor (TLR) ligands are promising candidates for the development of novel adjuvants for DNA vaccine. To improve the efficacy of DNA vaccine directed against human papillomavirus (HPV) tumors, we evaluated whether co-administration of a TLR4 ligand, monophosphoryl lipid A (MPL), and Natural Killer T Cell Ligand α-Galactosylceramide(α-GalCer) adjuvants with DNA vaccine would influence the anti-tumor efficacy of DNA vaccinations. We investigated the effectiveness of α-GalCer and MPL combination as an adjuvant with an HPV-16 E7 DNA vaccine to enhance antitumor immune responses. By using adjuvant combination for a DNA vaccine, we found that the levels of lymphocyte proliferation, CTL activity, IFN- γ, IL-4 and IL-12 responses, and tumor protection against TC-1 cells were significantly increased compared to the DNA vaccine with individual adjuvants. In addition, inhibition of IL-18 signaling during vaccination decreased IFN-γ responses and tumor protection, and that this inhibition suggested stimulatory role of IL-18 in adjuvant effects of α-GalCer and MPL combination. The strong adjuvanticity associated with α-GalCer/MPL combination may to be an important tool in the development of novel and strong cancer immunotherapy."},"26812180":{"title":"One Dose of Staphylococcus aureus 4C-Staph Vaccine Formulated with a Novel TLR7-Dependent Adjuvant Rapidly Protects Mice through Antibodies, Effector CD4+ T Cells, and IL-17A.","abstract":"A rapidly acting, single dose vaccine against Staphylococcus aureus would be highly beneficial for patients scheduled for major surgeries or in intensive care units. Here we show that one immunization with a multicomponent S. aureus candidate vaccine, 4C-Staph, formulated with a novel TLR7-dependent adjuvant, T7-alum, readily protected mice from death and from bacterial dissemination, both in kidney abscess and peritonitis models, outperforming alum-formulated vaccine. This increased efficacy was paralleled by higher vaccine-specific and α-hemolysin-neutralizing antibody titers and Th1/Th17 cell responses. Antibodies played a crucial protective role, as shown by the lack of protection of 4C-Staph/T7-alum vaccine in B-cell-deficient mice and by serum transfer experiments. Depletion of effector CD4+ T cells not only reduced survival but also increased S. aureus load in kidneys of mice immunized with 4C-Staph/T7-alum. The role of IL-17A in the control of bacterial dissemination in 4C-Staph/T7-alum vaccinated mice was indicated by in vivo neutralization experiments. We conclude that single dose 4C-Staph/T7-alum vaccine promptly and efficiently protected mice against S. aureus through the combined actions of antibodies, CD4+ effector T cells, and IL-17A. These data suggest that inclusion of an adjuvant that induces not only fast antibody responses but also IL-17-producing cell-mediated effector responses could efficaciously protect patients scheduled for major surgeries or in intensive care units."},"26819202":{"title":"Cutting Edge: The RIG-I Ligand 3pRNA Potently Improves CTL Cross-Priming and Facilitates Antiviral Vaccination.","abstract":"Protective immunity against intracellular pathogens involves the induction of robust CTL responses. Vaccination with protein Ags establishes such responses only when combined with immune-stimulatory adjuvants. In this study, we compared different adjuvants and identified triphosphate RNA (3pRNA) as especially effective at inducing CTL responses. 3pRNA sensing required IPS-1/MAVS signaling and induced type I IFN in plasmacytoid dendritic cells and macrophages, with the latter being more important for the adjuvant effect. Type I IFN acted on CD11c(+) cells, especially on CD8α(+) Batf3-dependent dendritic cells. Vaccination with OVA in combination with 3pRNA protected mice from a subsequent OVA-encoding adenovirus infection in a CD8(+) cell-dependent manner and more efficiently than other adjuvants. In summary, 3pRNA is a superior adjuvant for CTL activation and might be useful to facilitate antiviral immunization strategies."},"26862758":{"title":"TLR4 and TLR7/8 Adjuvant Combinations Generate Different Vaccine Antigen-Specific Immune Outcomes in Minipigs when Administered via the ID or IN Routes.","abstract":"The induction of high levels of systemic and mucosal humoral immunity is a key goal for many prophylactic vaccines. However, adjuvant strategies developed in mice have often performed poorly in the clinic. Due to their closer similarity to humans, minipigs may provide a more accurate picture of adjuvant performance. Based on their complementary signalling pathways, we assessed humoral immune responses to model antigens after co-administration with the toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) stimulator glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant (GLA-AF) or the TLR7/8 agonist resiquimod (R848) (alone and in combination) via the intradermal (ID), intranasal (IN) or combined routes in the Gottingen minipig animal model. Surprisingly, we discovered that while GLA-AF additively enhanced the adjuvant effect of R848 when injected ID, it abrogated the adjuvant activity of R848 after IN inoculation. We then performed a route comparison study using a CN54 gp140 HIV Envelope model antigen adjuvanted with R848 + GLA-AF (ID) or R848 alone (IN). Animals receiving priming inoculations via one route were then boosted by the alternate route. Although differences were observed in the priming phase (IN or ID), responses converged upon boosting by the alternative route with no observable impact resultant from the order of administration (ID/IN vs IN/ID). Specific IgG responses were measured at a distal mucosal site (vaginal), although there was no evidence of mucosal linkage as these closely reflected serum antibody levels. These data indicate that the complex in vivo cross-talk between innate pathways are likely tissue specific and cannot be predicted by simple in vitro models."},"26874325":{"title":"Immunogenicity of dimorphic and C-terminal fragments of Plasmodium falciparum MSP2 formulated with different adjuvants in mice.","abstract":"Plasmodium falciparum MSP2 is a blood stage protein that is associated with protection against malaria. It was shown that the MSP2 dimorphic (D) and constant (C) regions were well recognized by immune human antibodies, and were characterized by major conserved epitopes in different endemic areas and age groups. These Abs recognized merozoite-derived proteins in WB and IFA. Here, the goal was to determine in mice the immunogenicity of the two allelic MSP2 D and C domains formulated with different adjuvants, for their possible use in future clinical studies. Female A/J, C3H, and ICR mice were immunized subcutaneously 3 times at 3-week interval with a mixture of allelic and conserved MSP2 long synthetic peptides formulated with different adjuvants. One week after the third injection, sera from each group were obtained and stored at -20°C for subsequent testing. Both domains of the two MSP2 families are immunogenic and the fine specificity and intensity of the Ab responses are dependent on mouse strains and adjuvants. The major epitopes were restricted to the 20-mer peptide sequences comprising the last 8aa of D and first 12aa of C of the two allelic families and the first 20aa of the C region, this for most strains and adjuvants. Strong immune responses were associated with GLA-SE adjuvant and its combination with other TLR agonists (CpG or GDQ) compared to alhydrogel and Montanide. Further, the elicited Abs were also capable of recognizing Plasmodium-derived MSP2 and inhibiting parasite growth in ADCI. The data provide a valuable opportunity to evaluate in mice different adjuvant and antigen formulations of a candidate vaccine containing both MSP2 D and C fragments. The formulations with GLA-SE seem to be a promising option to be compared with the alhydrogel one in human clinical trials."},"26885373":{"title":"Monomeric annexin A2 is an oxygen-regulated toll-like receptor 2 ligand and adjuvant.","abstract":"Annexin A2 (ANXA2) is a pleiotropic, calcium-dependent, phospholipid-binding protein with a broad tissue distribution. It can be intracellular, membrane-bound, or secreted, and it exists as a monomer or heterotetramer. The secreted ANXA2 heterotetramer signals human and murine macrophages to produce IL-1, IL-6, and TNF-α through TLR4/MyD88- and TRIF-dependent pathways. GL261 glioma cells were cultured in 5 % or 20 % O2. Monomeric ANXA2 (ANXA2m) was identified as a TLR2-binding protein enriched in 5 % O2 by mass spectrometry. Purified ANXA2m and ANXA2-derived peptides were added to TLR2-expressing reporter cells and immature dendritic cells (DCs) cells in vitro. ANXA2m was then mixed with chicken ovalbumin (OVA) for vaccination of TLR2 (+/+) and TLR2 (-/-) mice for subsequent quantification of antigen-specific CD8(+) T cell responses. The TLR2-binding region of ANXA2m was determined using various peptides derived from the ANXA2 amino terminus on TLR2 reporter cells and in vaccinated mice. ANXA2m is overexpressed by murine glioblastoma GL261 cells grown under 5 % O2, but not atmospheric 20 % O2, and acts as an adjuvant by inducing murine and human DC maturation through TLR2. ANXA2m upregulates CD80 and CD86 expression, enhances antigen cross-presentation, and induces the secretion of IL-12p70, TNF-α, and IFN-γ. The amino-terminal 15 amino acids of ANXA2m are necessary and sufficient for TLR2 binding and DC activation. This novel finding adds to the known functions of ANXA2 and suggests ways to exploit it as a vaccine adjuvant. ANXA2-antigen fusion peptides could be developed for patients as \"off-the-shelf\" agents containing common tumor antigens. Alternatively, they could be \"personalized\" and synthesized after tumor sequencing to identify immunogenic tumor-specific neo-antigens. As the amino terminal 15 amino acids of ANXA2 are required to stimulate TLR2 activity, a fusion peptide could be as short as 30 amino acids if one or two CD8 T cell epitopes are fused to the ANXA2 amino terminal portion. Future work will address the efficacy of ANXA2 peptide fusions alone and in combination with established TLR agonists to induce synergy in preclinical models of glioma as observed in other vaccines."},"26886334":{"title":"Development and Evaluation of Biodegradable Particles Coloaded With Antigen and the Toll-Like Receptor Agonist, Pentaerythritol Lipid A, as a Cancer Vaccine.","abstract":"Immune adjuvants are important components of current and prospective cancer vaccines. In this study, we aimed at evaluating the use of a synthetic lipid A derivative, pentaerythritol lipid A (PET lipid A), loaded into poly(lactic-co-glycolic acid) particles, as a potential cancer vaccine adjuvant. Poly(lactic-co-glycolic acid) particles (size range: 250-600 nm) were successfully formulated to include PET lipid A and/or the model tumor antigen, chicken ovalbumin (OVA). It was shown that particulated PET lipid A had a distinct advantage at promoting secretion of the immune potentiating cytokine, IL-12p70, and upregulating key costimulatory surface proteins, CD86 and CD40, in murine dendritic cells in vitro. In a murine tumor model, involving prophylactic vaccination with various permutations of soluble versus particulated formulations of OVA with or without PET lipid A, modest benefit was observed in terms of OVA-specific cell-mediated immune responses when PET lipid A was delivered in particles. These findings translated into a corresponding trend toward increased survival of mice challenged with OVA-expressing tumor cells (E.G7). In terms of translation of safe adjuvants into the clinic, these results promote the concept of delivering toll-like receptor-4 agonists in particles because doing so improves their adjuvant properties, while decreasing the chances of adverse effects due to off-target uptake by nonphagocytic cells."},"27001957":{"title":"IL-15-Independent Maintenance of Tissue-Resident and Boosted Effector Memory CD8 T Cells.","abstract":"IL-15 regulates central and effector memory CD8 T cell (TCM and TEM, respectively) homeostatic proliferation, maintenance, and longevity. Consequently, IL-15 availability hypothetically defines the carrying capacity for total memory CD8 T cells within the host. In conflict with this hypothesis, previous observations demonstrated that boosting generates preternaturally abundant TEM that increases the total quantity of memory CD8 T cells in mice. In this article, we provide a potential mechanistic explanation by reporting that boosted circulating TEM do not require IL-15 for maintenance. We also investigated tissue-resident memory CD8 T cells (TRM), which protect nonlymphoid tissues from reinfection. We observed up to a 50-fold increase in the total magnitude of TRM in mouse mucosal tissues after boosting, suggesting that the memory T cell capacity in tissues is flexible and that TRM may not be under the same homeostatic regulation as primary central memory CD8 T cells and TEM Further analysis identified distinct TRM populations that depended on IL-15 for homeostatic proliferation and survival, depended on IL-15 for homeostatic proliferation but not for survival, or did not depend on IL-15 for either process. These observations on the numerical regulation of T cell memory indicate that there may be significant heterogeneity among distinct TRM populations and also argue against the common perception that developing vaccines that confer protection by establishing abundant TEM and TRM will necessarily erode immunity to previously encountered pathogens as the result of competition for IL-15."},"27005808":{"title":"Pulmonary immunity and durable protection induced by the ID93/GLA-SE vaccine candidate against the hyper-virulent Korean Beijing Mycobacterium tuberculosis strain K.","abstract":"The majority of tuberculosis (TB) vaccine candidates advanced to clinical trials have been evaluated preclinically using laboratory-adapted strains. However, it has been proposed that challenge with clinical isolates in preclinical vaccine testing could provide further and more practical validation. Here, we tested the ID93/GLA-SE TB vaccine candidate against the clinical Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) strain K (Mtb K) belonging to the Beijing family, the most prevalent Mtb strain in South Korea. Mice immunized with ID93/GLA-SE exhibited a significant reduction in bacteria and reduced lung inflammation against Mtb K when compared to non-immunized controls. In addition, we analyzed the immune responses in the lungs of ID93/GLA-SE-immunized mice, and showed that ID93/GLA-SE was able to elicit sustained Th1-biased immune responses including antigen-specific multifunctional CD4(+) T cell co-producing IFN-γ, TNF-α, and IL-2 as well as a high magnitude of IFN-γ response for up to 10 weeks post-challenge. Notably, further investigation of T cell subsets in the lung following challenge showed remarkable generation of CD8(+) central memory T cells by ID93/GLA-SE-immunization. Our findings showed that ID93/GLA-SE vaccine confers a high level of robust protection against the hypervirulent Mtb Beijing infection which was characterized by pulmonary Th1-polarized T-cell immune responses. These findings may also provide relevant information for potential utility of this vaccine candidate in East-Asian countries where the Beijing genotype is highly prevalent."},"27039212":{"title":"Optimization of a methamphetamine conjugate vaccine for antibody production in mice.","abstract":"There are still no approved medications for treating patients who abuse methamphetamine. Active vaccines for treating abuse of nicotine and cocaine are in clinical studies, but have not proven effective seemingly due to inadequate anti-drug antibody production. The current studies aimed to optimize the composition, adjuvant and route of administration of a methamphetamine conjugate vaccine, ICKLH-SMO9, in mice with the goal of generating significantly higher antibody levels. A range of hapten epitope densities were compared, as were the adjuvants Alhydrogel and a new Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) agonist called GLA-SE. While methamphetamine hapten density did not strongly affect the antibody response, the adjuvant did. Glucopyranosyl lipid A in a stable oil-in-water emulsion (GLA-SE) produced much higher levels of antibody in response to immunization compared with Alhydrogel; immunization with GLA-SE also produced antibodies with higher affinities for methamphetamine. GLA-SE has been used in human studies of vaccines for influenza among others and like some other clinical TLR4 agonists, it is safe and elicits a strong immune response. GLA-SE adjuvanted vaccines are typically administered by intramuscular injection and this also proved effective in these mouse studies. Clinical studies of the ICKLH-SMO9 methamphetamine vaccine adjuvanted with GLA-SE have the potential for demonstrating efficacy by generating much higher levels of antibody than substance abuse vaccines that have unsuccessfully used aluminum-based adjuvants."},"27085175":{"title":"Identification of GLA/SE as an effective adjuvant for the induction of robust humoral and cell-mediated immune responses to EBV-gp350 in mice and rabbits.","abstract":"Childhood infection with Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) is often asymptomatic and may result in mild flu-like symptoms, but exposure during adolescence and young adulthood can lead to acute infectious mononucleosis (AIM) with a pathology characterized by swollen lymph nodes, sore throat, and severe fatigue lasting weeks or months. A vaccine targeting the envelope glycoprotein gp350 adjuvanted with aluminum hydroxide complexed with the TLR4 agonist monophosphoryl lipid A (MPLA) achieved a 78% reduction in AIM incidence in a small phase II trial of college-age individuals, but development of this vaccine was halted by the manufacturer. Here, we report the evaluation in mice and rabbits of an EBV-gp350 vaccine combined with an adjuvant composed of the synthetic TLR4 agonist glucopyranosyl lipid A (GLA) integrated into stable emulsion (SE). In mice, GLA/SE-adjuvanted gp350 generated high IgG titers (both IgG1 and IgG2a/c subtypes), elevated EBV-neutralizing antibody titers, and robust poly-functional anti-gp350 CD4(+) T cell responses. In addition, GLA/SE routinely demonstrated superior performance over aluminum hydroxide in all immunological readouts, including induction of durable neutralizing antibody titers out to at least 1 year post-vaccination. Both components of the GLA/SE adjuvant were found to be required to get optimal responses in both arms of the immune response: specifically, SE for neutralizing antibodies and GLA for induction of T cell responses. Furthermore, this vaccine also elicited high neutralizing antibody titers in a second species, rabbit. These promising results suggest that clinical development of a vaccine comprised of EBV-gp350 plus GLA/SE has the potential to prevent AIM in post-adolescents."},"27102821":{"title":"A phase 1a, first-in-human, randomized study of a respiratory syncytial virus F protein vaccine with and without a toll-like receptor-4 agonist and stable emulsion adjuvant.","abstract":"Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) causes significant illness in older adults resulting in substantial health and economic impact. A successful vaccine would reduce morbidity in this growing segment of the population. In this double-blind phase 1 study, subjects 60 years of age and older were enrolled by cohort and randomized to receive vaccines containing escalating doses (20, 50, or 80μg) of soluble RSV fusion protein (sF) alone or adjuvanted with 2.5μg of glucopyranosyl lipid A, a toll-like receptor-4 agonist, in 2% stable emulsion (GLA-SE). Each cohort included 20 vaccine and 4 placebo recipients. Immune responses were evaluated using assays for RSV microneutralizing, anti-F IgG, and palivizumab competitive antibodies and for F-specific interferon (IFN)-γ enzyme-linked immunospot (ELISPOT) responses. The inclusion of adjuvant increased local reactogenicity, with the majority of subjects who received sF and adjuvant reporting low-grade injection site pain or tenderness. At all doses, the safety profile was acceptable for further development. Immune responses were antigen dose-dependent, and the inclusion of adjuvant increased both humoral and cellular immune responses, with responses statistically higher than for placebo recipients in all 4 assays. At the highest dosage level with adjuvant, half of the subjects had a ≥3-fold rise from day 0 in RSV neutralizing antibody titers, and all had a ≥3-fold rise in antibody levels by anti-F IgG and palivizumab competitive antibody assays on day 29. For the day 8 IFNγ ELISPOT assay, 74% of subjects in the highest dosing cohort had a ≥3-fold rise from baseline. The safety and immunogenicity results from this study support inclusion of the GLA-SE adjuvant in this RSV vaccine for older adults and also support assessment of the efficacy of the vaccine in a larger clinical trial. Clinicaltrials.gov NCT02115815."},"27105772":{"title":"Assessment of potential adjuvanticity of Cry proteins.","abstract":"Genetically modified (GM) crops have achieved success in the marketplace and their benefits extend beyond the overall increase in harvest yields to include lowered use of insecticides and decreased carbon dioxide emissions. The most widely grown GM crops contain gene/s for targeted insect protection, herbicide tolerance, or both. Plant expression of Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) crystal (Cry) insecticidal proteins have been the primary way to impart insect resistance in GM crops. Although deemed safe by regulatory agencies globally, previous studies have been the basis for discussions around the potential immuno-adjuvant effects of Cry proteins. These studies had limitations in study design. The studies used animal models with extremely high doses of Cry proteins, which when given using the ig route were co-administered with an adjuvant. Although the presumption exists that Cry proteins may have immunostimulatory activity and therefore an adjuvanticity risk, the evidence shows that Cry proteins are expressed at very low levels in GM crops and are unlikely to function as adjuvants. This conclusion is based on critical review of the published literature on the effects of immunomodulation by Cry proteins, the history of safe use of Cry proteins in foods, safety of the Bt donor organisms, and pre-market weight-of-evidence-based safety assessments for GM crops."},"27109565":{"title":"A non-human hepadnaviral adjuvant for hepatitis C virus-based genetic vaccines.","abstract":"Human hepatitis B virus (HBV) core antigen (HBcAg) can act as an adjuvant in hepatitis C virus (HCV)-based DNA vaccines. Since two billion people are, or have been, in contact with HBV, one may question the use of human HBV sequences as adjuvant. We herein evaluated non-human stork hepatitis B virus core gene-sequences from stork as DNA vaccine adjuvants. Full-length and fragmented stork HBcAg gene-sequences were added to an HCV non-structural (NS) 3/4A gene (NS3/4A-stork-HBcAg). This resulted in an enhanced priming of HCV-specific IFN-γ and IL-2 responses in both wild-type (wt)- and NS3/4A-transgenic (Tg) mice, the latter with dysfunctional NS3/4A-specific T cells. The NS3/4A-stork-HBcAg vaccine primed NS3/4A-specific T cells in hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg)-Tg mice with dysfunctional T cells to HBcAg and HBeAg. Repeated immunizations boosted expansion of IFN-γ and IL-2-producing NS3/4A-specific T cells in wt- and NS3/4A-Tg mice. Importantly, NS3/4A-stork-HBcAg-DNA induced in vivo long-term functional memory T cell responses, whose maintenance required CD4(+) T cells. Thus, avian HBcAg gene-sequences from stork can effectively act as a DNA vaccine adjuvant. This technology can most likely be universally expanded to other genetic vaccine antigens, as this completely avoids the use of sequences from a human virus where a pre-existing immunity may interfere with its adjuvant effect."},"27133878":{"title":"Induction of long term mucosal immunological memory in humans by an oral inactivated multivalent enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli vaccine.","abstract":"We have evaluated the capacity of an oral multivalent enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli (ETEC) vaccine (MEV) to induce mucosal immunological memory. MEV consists of four inactivated E. coli strains over-expressing the major colonization factors (CFs) CFA/I, CS3, CS5 and CS6 and the LTB-related toxoid LCTBA. Memory responses were analyzed by comparing the magnitudes and kinetics of intestine-derived antibody-secreting cell responses to a single dose of MEV in three groups of adult Swedish volunteers (n=16-19 subjects per group) in a Phase I trial: non-immunized controls (I) and subjects who in a previous Phase I trial 13-23 months earlier had received two biweekly doses of MEV (II) or MEV+double mutant LT (dmLT) adjuvant (III). Responses against CFs and LTB were analyzed in antibodies in lymphocyte secretions (ALS) of blood mononuclear cells collected before (day 0) and 4/5 and 7 days after immunization. Specific circulating memory B cells present at the time of the single dose vaccination were also studied to determine if such cells may reflect mucosal memory. Considerably higher and significantly more frequent IgA ALS responses against all CFs and LTB were induced by the single vaccine dose in the previously immunized than in non-immunized volunteers. Furthermore, peak IgA ALS responses against all antigens were observed on days 4/5 in most of the previously immunized subjects whereas only a few previously non-vaccinated individuals responded before day 7. Priming with adjuvant did not influence memory responses. Circulating vaccine specific IgA memory B cells were not detected, whereas anti-toxin IgG memory B cells were identified 13-23 months after priming vaccination. We conclude that MEV induces functional mucosal immunological memory which remains at least 1-2 years. Furthermore, our results support that analysis of antibody-secreting cell responses after booster vaccination may be a useful approach to evaluate longstanding mucosal immunological memory in humans. ISRCTN27096290."},"27142329":{"title":"Strategic evaluation of vaccine candidate antigens for the prevention of Visceral Leishmaniasis.","abstract":"Infection with Leishmania parasites results in a range of clinical manifestations and outcomes, the most severe of which is visceral leishmaniasis (VL). Vaccination will likely provide the most effective long-term control strategy, as the large number of vectors and potential infectious reservoirs renders sustained interruption of Leishmania parasite transmission extremely difficult. Selection of the best vaccine is complicated because, although several vaccine antigen candidates have been proposed, they have emerged following production in different platforms. To consolidate the information that has been generated into a single vaccine platform, we expressed seven candidates as recombinant proteins in E. coli. After verifying that each recombinant protein could be recognized by VL patients, we evaluated their protective efficacy against experimental L. donovani infection of mice. Administration in formulation with the Th1-potentiating adjuvant GLA-SE indicated that each antigen could elicit antigen-specific Th1 responses that were protective. Considering the ability to reduce parasite burden along with additional factors such as sequence identity across Leishmania species, we then generated a chimeric fusion protein comprising a combination of the 8E, p21 and SMT proteins. This E. coli -expressed fusion protein was also demonstrated to protect against L. donovani infection. These data indicate a novel recombinant vaccine antigen with the potential for use in VL control programs."},"27159166":{"title":"Comparative Immunogenicity of HIV-1 gp140 Vaccine Delivered by Parenteral, and Mucosal Routes in Female Volunteers; MUCOVAC2, A Randomized Two Centre Study.","abstract":"Defining optimal routes for induction of mucosal immunity represents an important research priority for the HIV-1 vaccine field. In particular, it remains unclear whether mucosal routes of immunization can improve mucosal immune responses. In this randomized two center phase I clinical trial we evaluated the systemic and mucosal immune response to a candidate HIV-1 Clade C CN54gp140 envelope glycoprotein vaccine administered by intramuscular (IM), intranasal (IN) and intravaginal (IVAG) routes of administration in HIV negative female volunteers. IM immunizations were co-administered with Glucopyranosyl Lipid Adjuvant (GLA), IN immunizations with 0.5% chitosan and IVAG immunizations were administered in an aqueous gel. Three IM immunizations of CN54 gp140 at either 20 or 100 μg elicited significantly greater systemic and mucosal antibodies than either IN or IVAG immunizations. Following additional intramuscular boosting we observed an anamnestic antibody response in nasally primed subjects. Modest neutralizing responses were detected against closely matched tier 1 clade C virus in the IM groups. Interestingly, the strongest CD4 T-cell responses were detected after IN and not IM immunization. These data show that parenteral immunization elicits systemic and mucosal antibodies in women. Interestingly IN immunization was an effective prime for IM boost, while IVAG administration had no detectable impact on systemic or mucosal responses despite IM priming. EudraCT 2010-019103-27 and the UK Clinical Research Network (UKCRN) Number 11679."},"27183434":{"title":"The Effect of G2 Adjuvant on Gene Expression and Delivery of NKG2D Receptor on NK Cells in Peripheral Blood.","abstract":"Natural killer (NK) cells are a subset of lymphocytes in humans that release cytokines such as tumor necrosis factor alpha and interferon gamma-γ during infection. NKG2D is one of the most important stimulating NK receptors binding MIC-A, MIC-B, and ULBPs, which leads to activation of NK cells against tumor cells. In this study, the authors evaluated the effect of G2 adjuvant on gene expression and delivery of NKG2D receptor on NK cells in peripheral blood. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells were isolated from venous blood obtained from healthy volunteers after adding G2 adjuvant within 12, 24, and 48 hours of incubation. Then, total RNA was extracted from the cells, cDNA synthesis was performed, and gene expression was evaluated by real-time PCR. In addition, NK cells were stained with the appropriate monoclonal antibodies, and the receptors expressed on cell surface were quantified. G2 adjuvant leads to upregulation of gene expression and increases the expression of NKG2D receptor on the surface of NK cells after incubation. The findings of this study demonstrated that G2 adjuvant can increase NK cell cytotoxicity. It may play an important role in killing tumor cells, preventing tumor growth and metastasis."},"27213168":{"title":"QS-21: A Potent Vaccine Adjuvant.","abstract":""},"27226038":{"title":"Cancer Immunotherapy: Comprehensive Mechanism Analysis of Mesoporous-Silica-Nanoparticle-Induced Cancer Immunotherapy (Adv. Healthcare Mater. 10/2016).","abstract":"A plain mesoporous silica (MS) nanoparticle without any immunomodulatory molecules enhances anti-cancer immunity in vivo. On page 1169, X.P. Wang, N. M. Tsuji, A. Ito and co-workers show that a plain MS nanoparticle promotes both Th1 and Th2 immune responses, and enhances the effector memory of CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cell populations in the three most important immune organs (bone marrow, lymph node and spleen) of mice."},"27226279":{"title":"Immunogenicity and Protective Efficacy against Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli Colonization following Intradermal, Sublingual, or Oral Vaccination with EtpA Adhesin.","abstract":"Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli (ETEC) strains are a common cause of diarrhea. Extraordinary antigenic diversity has prompted a search for conserved antigens to complement canonical approaches to ETEC vaccine development. EtpA, an immunogenic extracellular ETEC adhesin relatively conserved in the ETEC pathovar, has previously been shown to be a protective antigen following intranasal immunization. These studies were undertaken to explore alternative routes of EtpA vaccination that would permit use of a double mutant (R192G L211A) heat-labile toxin (dmLT) adjuvant. Here, oral vaccination with EtpA adjuvanted with dmLT afforded significant protection against small intestinal colonization, and the degree of protection correlated with fecal IgG, IgA, or total fecal antibody responses to EtpA. Sublingual vaccination yielded compartmentalized mucosal immune responses with significant increases in anti-EtpA fecal IgG and IgA, and mice vaccinated via this route were also protected against colonization. In contrast, while intradermal (i.d.) vaccination achieved high levels of both serum and fecal antibodies against both EtpA and dmLT, mice vaccinated via the i.d. route were not protected against subsequent colonization and the avidity of serum IgG and IgA EtpA-specific antibodies was significantly lower after i.d. immunization compared to other routes. Finally, we demonstrate that antiserum from vaccinated mice significantly impairs binding of LT to cognate GM1 receptors and shows near complete neutralization of toxin delivery by ETEC in vitro Collectively, these data provide further evidence that EtpA could complement future vaccine strategies but also suggest that additional effort will be required to optimize its use as a protective immunogen."},"27318760":{"title":"Solid nanoemulsion as antigen and immunopotentiator carrier for transcutaneous immunization.","abstract":"Imiquimod, a toll-like receptor 7 (TLR7) agonist, is an active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) established for the topical treatment of several dermal cancerous and precancerous skin lesions. Within this work, the immunostimulatory effect of imiquimod is further exploited in a transcutaneous immunization (TCI) approach based on a solid nanoemulsion (SN) formulation. SN contains a combination of imiquimod with the model peptide antigen SIINFEKL as a novel approach to omit needle and syringe and optimize dermal antigen administration. Excipients including sucrose fatty acid esters and the pharmaceutically acceptable oils MCT (middle chain triglycerides), avocado oil, jojoba wax and squalene are high pressure homogenized together with the antigen SIINFEKL. Freeze drying was performed to eliminate water and to achieve spreadable properties of the formulation for dermal administration. The influence of the different oil components was assessed regarding in vitro drug permeation in a Franz diffusion cell model using a murine skin setup. In vivo performance in terms of cytotoxic T-cell response was assessed in a C57BL/6 mouse model. Whereas Aldara® cream contains imiquimod in a dissolved state, the SN formulations carry the active in a suspended state. This resulted in a reduction of imiquimod permeation across murine skin from the SN when compared to Aldara® cream. In spite of this permeation rate reduction, each SN induced an in vivo immune response by specific T-cell lysis. A stabilized solid nanosuspension containing squalene/tocopherol exhibited a significantly higher performance (p⩽0.05) in comparison with Aldara® cream. MCT based SN exerted an in vivo effect comparable to Aldara®. In conclusion, anhydrous highly dispersed vehicles containing imiquimod in a submicron particle size distribution can represent promising formulations for TCI. The choice of the oil component has a strong influence on SN performance, independent of in vitro drug permeation."},"27342914":{"title":"Human Phase 1 trial of low-dose inactivated seasonal influenza vaccine formulated with Advax™ delta inulin adjuvant.","abstract":"Influenza vaccines are usually non-adjuvanted but addition of adjuvant may improve immunogenicity and permit dose-sparing, critical for vaccine supply in the event of an influenza pandemic. The aim of this first-in-man study was to determine the effect of delta inulin adjuvant on the safety and immunogenicity of a reduced dose seasonal influenza vaccine. Healthy male and female adults aged 18-65years were recruited to participate in a randomized controlled study to compare the safety, tolerability and immunogenicity of a reduced-dose 2007 Southern Hemisphere trivalent inactivated influenza vaccine formulated with Advax™ delta inulin adjuvant (LTIV+Adj) when compared to a full-dose of the standard TIV vaccine which does not contain an adjuvant. LTIV+Adj provided equivalent immunogenicity to standard TIV vaccine as assessed by hemagglutination inhibition (HI) assays against each vaccine strain as well as against a number of heterosubtypic strains. HI responses were sustained at 3months post-immunisation in both groups. Antibody landscapes against a large panel of H3N2 influenza viruses showed distinct age effects whereby subjects over 40years old had a bimodal baseline HI distribution pattern, with the highest HI titers against the very oldest H3N2 isolates and with a second HI peak against influenza isolates from the last 5-10years. By contrast, subjects >40years had a unimodal baseline HI distribution with peak recognition of H3N2 isolates from approximately 20years ago. The reduced dose TIV vaccine containing Advax adjuvant was well tolerated and no safety issues were identified. Hence, delta inulin may be a useful adjuvant for use in seasonal or pandemic influenza vaccines. Australia New Zealand Clinical Trial Registry: ACTRN12607000599471."},"27387453":{"title":"The Immunomodulatory Role of Adjuvants in Vaccines Formulated with the Recombinant Antigens Ov-103 and Ov-RAL-2 against Onchocerca volvulus in Mice.","abstract":"In some regions in Africa, elimination of onchocerciasis may be possible with mass drug administration, although there is concern based on several factors that onchocerciasis cannot be eliminated solely through this approach. A vaccine against Onchocerca volvulus would provide a critical tool for the ultimate elimination of this infection. Previous studies have demonstrated that immunization of mice with Ov-103 and Ov-RAL-2, when formulated with alum, induced protective immunity. It was hypothesized that the levels of protective immunity induced with the two recombinant antigens formulated with alum would be improved by formulation with other adjuvants known to enhance different types of antigen-specific immune responses. Immunizing mice with Ov-103 and Ov-RAL-2 in conjunction with alum, Advax 2 and MF59 induced significant levels of larval killing and host protection. The immune response was biased towards Th2 with all three of the adjuvants, with IgG1 the dominant antibody. Improved larval killing and host protection was observed in mice immunized with co-administered Ov-103 and Ov-RAL-2 in conjunction with each of the three adjuvants as compared to single immunizations. Antigen-specific antibody titers were significantly increased in mice immunized concurrently with the two antigens. Based on chemokine levels, it appears that neutrophils and eosinophils participate in the protective immune response induced by Ov-103, and macrophages and neutrophils participate in immunity induced by Ov-RAL-2. The mechanism of protective immunity induced by Ov-103 and Ov-RAL-2, with the adjuvants alum, Advax 2 and MF59, appears to be multifactorial with roles for cytokines, chemokines, antibody and specific effector cells. The vaccines developed in this study have the potential of reducing the morbidity associated with onchocerciasis in humans."},"27439378":{"title":"Novel adjuvant Alum-TLR7 significantly potentiates immune response to glycoconjugate vaccines.","abstract":"Although glycoconjugate vaccines are generally very efficacious, there is still a need to improve their efficacy, especially in eliciting a strong primary antibody response. We have recently described a new type of vaccine adjuvant based on a TLR7 agonist adsorbed to alum (Alum-TLR7), which is highly efficacious at enhancing immunogenicity of protein based vaccines. Since no adjuvant has been shown to potentiate the immune response to glycoconjugate vaccines in humans, we investigated if Alum-TLR7 is able to improve immunogenicity of this class of vaccines. We found that in a mouse model Alum-TLR7 greatly improved potency of a CRM197-MenC vaccine increasing anti-MenC antibody titers and serum bactericidal activity (SBA) against MenC compared to alum adjuvanted vaccine, especially with a low dose of antigen and already after a single immunization. Alum-TLR7 also drives antibody response towards Th1 isotypes. This adjuvant was also able to increase immunogenicity of all polysaccharides of a multicomponent glycoconjugate vaccine CRM197-MenACWY. Furthermore, we found that Alum-TLR7 increases anti-polysaccharide immune response even in the presence of a prior immune response against the carrier protein. Finally, we demonstrate that Alum-TLR7 adjuvant effect requires a functional TLR7. Taken together, our data support the use of Alum-TLR7 as adjuvant for glycoconjugate vaccines."},"27456709":{"title":"An Inactivated Rabies Virus-Based Ebola Vaccine, FILORAB1, Adjuvanted With Glucopyranosyl Lipid A in Stable Emulsion Confers Complete Protection in Nonhuman Primate Challenge Models.","abstract":"The 2013-2016 West African Ebola virus (EBOV) disease outbreak was the largest filovirus outbreak to date. Over 28 000 suspected, probable, or confirmed cases have been reported, with a 53% case-fatality rate. The magnitude and international impact of this EBOV outbreak has highlighted the urgent need for a safe and efficient EBOV vaccine. To this end, we demonstrate the immunogenicity and protective efficacy of FILORAB1, a recombinant, bivalent, inactivated rabies virus-based EBOV vaccine, in rhesus and cynomolgus monkeys. Our results demonstrate that the use of the synthetic Toll-like receptor 4 agonist glucopyranosyl lipid A in stable emulsion (GLA-SE) as an adjuvant increased the efficacy of FILORAB1 to 100% protection against lethal EBOV challenge, with no to mild clinical signs of disease. Furthermore, all vaccinated subjects developed protective anti-rabies virus antibody titers. Taken together, these results support further development of FILORAB1/GLA-SE as an effective preexposure EBOV vaccine."},"27466350":{"title":"Optimizing Immunization Strategies for the Induction of Antigen-Specific CD4 and CD8 T Cell Responses for Protection against Intracellular Parasites.","abstract":"Immunization strategies that generate either CD4 or CD8 T cell responses are relatively well described, but less is known with regard to optimizing regimens to induce both CD4 and CD8 memory T cells. Considering the importance of both CD4 and CD8 T cells in the control of intracellular pathogens such as Leishmania donovani, we wanted to identify vaccines that could raise both CD4 and CD8 T cell responses and determine how to configure immunization strategies to generate the best combined protective T cell response. We examined responses generated against the Leishmania vaccine antigen F3 following its administration in either recombinant form with the Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) agonist-containing adjuvant formulation GLA-SE (F3+GLA-SE) or as a gene product delivered in an adenoviral vector (Ad5-F3). Homologous immunization strategies using only F3+GLA-SE or Ad5-F3 preferentially generated either CD4 or CD8 T cells, respectively. In contrast, heterologous strategies generated both antigen-specific CD4 and CD8 T cells. Administration of F3+GLA-SE before Ad5-F3 generated the greatest combined CD4 and CD8 responses. Cytotoxic CD8 T cell responses were highest when Th1 cells were generated prior to their induction by Ad5-F3. Finally, a single immunization with a combination of F3+GLA-SE mixed with Ad5-F3 was found to be sufficient to provide protection against experimental L. donovani infection. Taken together, our data delineate immunization regimens that induce antigen-specific CD4 and CD8 T cell memory responses, and identify a single immunization strategy that could be used to rapidly provide protection against intracellular pathogens in regions where access to health care is limited or sporadic."},"27520723":{"title":"Calcium phosphate-polymer hybrid nanoparticles for enhanced triple negative breast cancer treatment via co-delivery of paclitaxel and miR-221/222 inhibitors.","abstract":"In this study, a development of a novel calcium phosphate-polymer hybrid nanoparticle system is reported.The nanoparticle system can co-encapsulate and co-deliver a combination of therapeutic agents with different physicochemical properties (i.e., inhibitors for microRNA-221 and microRNA-222 (miRi-221/222) and paclitaxel (pac)).miRi-221/222 are hydrophilic and were encapsulated with calcium phosphate by co-precipitation in a water-in-oil emulsion.The precipitates were then coated with an anionic lipid, dioleoylphosphatidic acid (DOPA), to co-encapsulate hydrophobic paclitaxel outside the hydrophilic precipitates and inside the same nanoparticle.The nanoparticles formed by following this approach had a size of about ≤100nm and contained both lipid-coated calcium phosphate/miRi and paclitaxel.This nanoparticle system was found to simultaneously deliver paclitaxel and miRi-221/222 to their intracellular targets, leading to inhibit proliferative mechanisms of miR-221/222 and thus significantly enhancing the therapeutic efficacy of paclitaxel."},"27525651":{"title":"Testing the H56 Vaccine Delivered in 4 Different Adjuvants as a BCG-Booster in a Non-Human Primate Model of Tuberculosis.","abstract":"The search for new and improved tuberculosis (TB) vaccines has focused on IFN-γ both for selecting antigens and for evaluating vaccine delivery strategies. The essential role of IFN-γ in endogenous host protection is well established, but it is still uncertain whether this also holds true for vaccine protection. Here we evaluate the H56 fusion protein vaccine as a BCG booster in a non-human primate (NHP) model of TB that closely recapitulates human TB pathogenesis. To date, only a handful of novel adjuvants have been tested in the NHP model of TB, and therefore we administered H56 in 3 novel cationic liposome adjuvants of increasing immunogenicity (CAF01, CAF04, CAF05) and compared them to H56 in the IC31® adjuvant previously reported to promote protection in this model. The individual clinical parameters monitored during infection (weight, ESR, X-ray) all correlated with survival, and boosting BCG with H56 in all adjuvants resulted in better survival rates compared to BCG alone. The adjuvants promoted IFN-γ-responses of increasing intensity as measured by ELISPOT in the peripheral blood, but the level of vaccine-specific IFN-γ production did not correlate with or predict disease outcome. This study's main outcome underscores the importance of the choice of adjuvant for TB subunit vaccines, and secondly it highlights the need for better correlates of protection in preclinical models of TB."},"27622060":{"title":"Biphasic function of TLR3 adjuvant on tumor and spleen dendritic cells promotes tumor T cell infiltration and regression in a vaccine therapy.","abstract":"Successful cancer immunotherapy necessitates T cell proliferation and infiltration into tumor without exhaustion, a process closely links optimal maturation of dendritic cells (DC), and adjuvant promotes this process as an essential prerequisite. Poly(I:C) has contributed to adjuvant immunotherapy that evokes an antitumor response through the Toll-loke receptor 3 (TLR3)/TICAM-1 pathway in DC. However, the mechanism whereby Poly(I:C) acts on DC for T cell proliferation and migration remains undetermined. Subcutaneous injection of Poly(I:C) regressed implant tumors (WT1-C1498 or OVA-EG7) in C57BL/6 mice, which coincided with tumor-infiltration of CD8(+) T cells. Epitope-specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) were increased in spleen by challenge with Poly(I:C)+Db126 WT-1 peptide but not Poly(I:C) alone, suggesting the need of an exogenous Ag density for cross-priming. In tumor, CXCR3 ligands were upregulated by Poly(I:C), which facilitated recruitment of CTL to the tumor. Thus, Poly(I:C) acts on splenic CD8α(+) DC to cross-prime T cells and on intratumor cells to attract CTLs. Besides CD8(+) T cell cross-priming, T cell recruitment into tumor was significantly dampened in Batf3 (-/-) mice, reflecting the importance of tumor Batf3-dependent DC rather than macrophages in T cell recruitment. Poly(I:C)-induced XCR1(hi) CD8α(+) DC with high TLR3 levels were markedly decreased in Batf3 (-/-) mice, which hampered the production of IL-12 and IL-12-mediated CD4(+)/CD8(+) T cell proliferation. Subcutaneous administration of Poly(I:C) and adoptive transfer of wild-type CD8α(+) DC largely recovered antitumor response in those Batf3 (-/-) mice. Collectively, Poly(I:C) tunes up proper maturation of CD8α(+) DC to establish TLR3-mediated IL-12 function and cross-presentation in spleen and lymphocyte-attractive antitumor microenvironment in tumor."},"27626058":{"title":"Expression of DAI by an oncolytic vaccinia virus boosts the immunogenicity of the virus and enhances antitumor immunity.","abstract":"In oncolytic virotherapy, the ability of the virus to activate the immune system is a key attribute with regard to long-term antitumor effects. Vaccinia viruses bear one of the strongest oncolytic activities among all oncolytic viruses. However, its capacity for stimulation of antitumor immunity is not optimal, mainly due to its immunosuppressive nature. To overcome this problem, we developed an oncolytic VV that expresses intracellular pattern recognition receptor DNA-dependent activator of IFN-regulatory factors (DAI) to boost the innate immune system and to activate adaptive immune cells in the tumor. We showed that infection with DAI-expressing VV increases expression of several genes related to important immunological pathways. Treatment with DAI-armed VV resulted in significant reduction in the size of syngeneic melanoma tumors in mice. When the mice were rechallenged with the same tumor, DAI-VV-treated mice completely rejected growth of the new tumor, which indicates immunity established against the tumor. We also showed enhanced control of growth of human melanoma tumors and elevated levels of human T-cells in DAI-VV-treated mice humanized with human peripheral blood mononuclear cells. We conclude that expression of DAI by an oncolytic VV is a promising way to amplify the vaccine potency of an oncolytic vaccinia virus to trigger the innate-and eventually the long-lasting adaptive immunity against cancer."},"27670072":{"title":"Retinaldehyde dehydrogenase 2 as a molecular adjuvant for enhancement of mucosal immunity during DNA vaccination.","abstract":"In order for vaccines to induce efficacious immune responses against mucosally transmitted pathogens, such as HIV-1, activated lymphocytes must efficiently migrate to and enter targeted mucosal sites. We have previously shown that all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) can be used as a vaccine adjuvant to enhance mucosal CD8+ T cell responses during vaccination and improve protection against mucosal viral challenge. However, the ATRA formulation is incompatible with most recombinant vaccines, and the teratogenic potential of ATRA at high doses limits its usage in many clinical settings. We hypothesized that increasing in vivo production of retinoic acid (RA) during vaccination with a DNA vector expressing retinaldehyde dehydrogenase 2 (RALDH2), the rate-limiting enzyme in RA biosynthesis, could similarly provide enhanced programming of mucosal homing to T cell responses while avoiding teratogenic effects. Administration of a RALDH2- expressing plasmid during immunization with a HIVgag DNA vaccine resulted in increased systemic and mucosal CD8+ T cell numbers with an increase in both effector and central memory T cells. Moreover, mice that received RALDH2 plasmid during DNA vaccination were more resistant to intravaginal challenge with a recombinant vaccinia virus expressing the same HIVgag antigen (VACVgag). Thus, RALDH2 can be used as an alternative adjuvant to ATRA during DNA vaccination leading to an increase in both systemic and mucosal T cell immunity and better protection from viral infection at mucosal sites."},"27676456":{"title":"Induction of mucosal immune responses against Helicobacter pylori infection after sublingual and intragastric route of immunization.","abstract":"There is a current lack of effective mucosal vaccines against major gastroenteric pathogens and particularly against Helicobacter pylori, which causes a chronic infection that can lead to peptic ulcers and gastric cancer in a subpopulation of infected individuals. Mucosal CD4+ T-cell responses have been shown to be essential for vaccine-induced protection against H. pylori infection. The current study addresses the influence of the adjuvant and site of mucosal immunization on early CD4+ T-cell priming to H. pylori antigens. The vaccine formulation consisted of H. pylori lysate antigens and mucosal adjuvants, cholera toxin (CT) or a detoxified double-mutant heat-labile enterotoxin from Escherichia coli (dmLT), which were administered by either the sublingual or intragastric route. We report that in vitro, adjuvants CT and dmLT induce up-regulation of pro-inflammatory gene expression in purified dendritic cells and enhance the H. pylori-specific CD4+ T-cell response including interleukin-17A (IL-17A), interferon-γ (IFN-γ) and tumour necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) secretion. In vivo, sublingual immunization led to an increased frequency of IL-17A+ , IFN-γ+ and TNF-α+ secreting CD4+ T cells in the cervical lymph nodes compared with in the mesenteric lymph nodes after intragastric immunization. Subsequently, IL-17A+ cells were visualized in the stomach of sublingually immunized and challenged mice. In summary, our results suggest that addition of an adjuvant to the vaccine clearly activated dendritic cells, which in turn, enhanced CD4+ T-cell cytokines IL-17A, IFN-γ and TNF-α responses, particularly in the cervical lymph nodes after sublingual vaccination."},"27699241":{"title":"Adjuvanted multi-epitope vaccines protect HLA-A*11:01 transgenic mice against Toxoplasma gondii.","abstract":"We created and tested multi-epitope DNA or protein vaccines with TLR4 ligand emulsion adjuvant (gluco glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant in a stable emulsion [GLA-SE]) for their ability to protect against Toxoplasma gondii in HLA transgenic mice. Our constructs each included 5 of our best down-selected CD8+ T cell-eliciting epitopes, a universal CD4+ helper T lymphocyte epitope (PADRE), and a secretory signal, all arranged for optimal MHC-I presentation. Their capacity to elicit immune and protective responses was studied using immunization of HLA-A*11:01 transgenic mice. These multi-epitope vaccines increased memory CD8+ T cells that produced IFN-γ and protected mice against parasite burden when challenged with T. gondii. Endocytosis of emulsion-trapped protein and cross presentation of the antigens must account for the immunogenicity of our adjuvanted protein. Thus, our work creates an adjuvanted platform assembly of peptides resulting in cross presentation of CD8+ T cell-eliciting epitopes in a vaccine that prevents toxoplasmosis."},"27717915":{"title":"Changes in apoptosis-related gene expression and cytokine release in breast cancer cells treated with CpG-loaded magnetic PAMAM nanoparticles.","abstract":"CpG-oligodeoxynucleotide (CpG-ODN) can function as an immune adjuvant. Previously, we showed that stimulation of breast cancer cells with CpG-ODN conjugated with PAMAM dendrimer-coated magnetic nanoparticles (DcMNPs) has induced apoptosis. The aim of the current study was to evaluate the expression levels of some apoptosis-regulating genes in several human breast cancer cells treated with CpG/DcMNPs. Treated MDA-MB231 cells showed an increase in Noxa and Bax gene expression levels, whereas the expression level of Survivin decreased. Similarly, Noxa gene was overexpressed in treated MCF7 cells. In treated SKBR3 cells, a decline in the c-Flip mRNA level was determined. Furthermore, release of cytokines, IL-6, IL-10, and TNF-α, was determined in cell culture supernatants. CpG/DcMNP treatment leads to an increase in the release of IL-6 in MDA-MB231 and SKBR3 cells, whereas release of IL-10 and TNF-α did not change significantly. It is indicated that CpG-ODN may show its cytotoxic effect by regulating the expression of apoptosis-related genes and the release of cytokine in breast cancer cells."},"27741278":{"title":"MyD88/CD40 Genetic Adjuvant Function in Cutaneous Atypical Antigen-Presenting Cells Contributes to DNA Vaccine Immunogenicity.","abstract":"Therapeutic DNA-based vaccines aim to prime an adaptive host immune response against tumor-associated antigens, eliminating cancer cells primarily through CD8+ cytotoxic T cell-mediated destruction. To be optimally effective, immunological adjuvants are required for the activation of tumor-specific CD8+ T cells responses by DNA vaccination. Here, we describe enhanced anti-tumor efficacy of an in vivo electroporation-delivered DNA vaccine by inclusion of a genetically encoded chimeric MyD88/CD40 (MC) adjuvant, which integrates both innate and adaptive immune signaling pathways. When incorporated into a DNA vaccine, signaling by the MC adjuvant increased antigen-specific CD8+ T cells and promoted elimination of pre-established tumors. Interestingly, MC-enhanced vaccine efficacy did not require direct-expression of either antigen or adjuvant by local antigen-presenting cells, but rather our data supports a key role for MC function in \"atypical\" antigen-presenting cells of skin. In particular, MC adjuvant-modified keratinocytes increased inflammatory cytokine secretion, upregulated surface MHC class I, and were able to increase in vitro and in vivo priming of antigen-specific CD8+ T cells. Furthermore, in the absence of critical CD8α+/CD103+ cross-priming dendritic cells, MC was still able to promote immune priming in vivo, albeit at a reduced level. Altogether, our data support a mechanism by which MC signaling activates an inflammatory phenotype in atypical antigen-presenting cells within the cutaneous vaccination site, leading to an enhanced CD8+ T cell response against DNA vaccine-encoded antigens, through both CD8α+/CD103+ dendritic cell-dependent and independent pathways."},"27847326":{"title":"Adsorption of a synthetic TLR7/8 ligand to aluminum oxyhydroxide for enhanced vaccine adjuvant activity: A formulation approach.","abstract":"For nearly a century, aluminum salts have been the most widely used vaccine adjuvant formulation, and have thus established a history of safety and efficacy. Nevertheless, for extremely challenging disease targets such as tuberculosis or HIV, the adjuvant activity of aluminum salts may not be potent enough to achieve protective efficacy. Adsorption of TLR ligands to aluminum salts facilitates enhanced adjuvant activity, such as in the human papilloma virus vaccine Cervarix®. However, some TLR ligands such as TLR7/8 agonist imidazoquinolines do not efficiently adsorb to aluminum salts. The present report describes a formulation approach to solving this challenge by developing a lipid-based nanosuspension of a synthetic TLR7/8 ligand (3M-052) that facilitates adsorption to aluminum oxyhydroxide via the structural properties of the helper lipid employed. In immunized mice, the aluminum oxyhydroxide-adsorbed formulation of 3M-052 enhanced antibody and TH1-type cellular immune responses to vaccine antigens for tuberculosis and HIV."},"27895131":{"title":"The Plasmodium falciparum Cell-Traversal Protein for Ookinetes and Sporozoites as a Candidate for Preerythrocytic and Transmission-Blocking Vaccines.","abstract":"Recent studies have shown that immune responses against the cell-traversal protein for Plasmodium ookinetes and sporozoites (CelTOS) can inhibit parasite infection. While these studies provide important evidence toward the development of vaccines targeting this protein, it remains unknown whether these responses could engage the Plasmodium falciparum CelTOS in vivo Using a newly developed rodent malaria chimeric parasite expressing the P. falciparum CelTOS (PfCelTOS), we evaluated the protective effect of in vivo immune responses elicited by vaccination and assessed the neutralizing capacity of monoclonal antibodies specific against PfCelTOS. Mice immunized with recombinant P. falciparum CelTOS in combination with the glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant-stable emulsion (GLA-SE) or glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant-liposome-QS21 (GLA-LSQ) adjuvant system significantly inhibited sporozoite hepatocyte infection. Notably, monoclonal antibodies against PfCelTOS strongly inhibited oocyst development of P. falciparum and Plasmodium berghei expressing PfCelTOS in Anopheles gambiae mosquitoes. Taken together, our results demonstrate that anti-CelTOS responses elicited by vaccination or passive immunization can inhibit sporozoite and ookinete infection and impair vector transmission."},"27958370":{"title":"Comparative Systems Analyses Reveal Molecular Signatures of Clinically tested Vaccine Adjuvants.","abstract":"A better understanding of the mechanisms of action of human adjuvants could inform a rational development of next generation vaccines for human use. Here, we exploited a genome wide transcriptomics analysis combined with a systems biology approach to determine the molecular signatures induced by four clinically tested vaccine adjuvants, namely CAF01, IC31, GLA-SE and Alum in mice. We report signature molecules, pathways, gene modules and networks, which are shared by or otherwise exclusive to these clinical-grade adjuvants in whole blood and draining lymph nodes of mice. Intriguingly, co-expression analysis revealed blood gene modules highly enriched for molecules with documented roles in T follicular helper (TFH) and germinal center (GC) responses. We could show that all adjuvants enhanced, although with different magnitude and kinetics, TFH and GC B cell responses in draining lymph nodes. These results represent, to our knowledge, the first comparative systems analysis of clinically tested vaccine adjuvants that may provide new insights into the mechanisms of action of human adjuvants."},"28017433":{"title":"Passive antibodies derived from intramuscularly immunized toxoid fusion 3xSTaN12S-dmLT protect against STa+ enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli (ETEC) diarrhea in a pig model.","abstract":"Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli (ETEC) strains are among the most common causes of children's diarrhea and travelers' diarrhea. Developing effective vaccines against ETEC associated diarrhea becomes a top priority. ETEC heat-labile toxin (LT) and heat-stable toxin (STa) toxoid fusion 3xSTaN12S-dmLT was demonstrated recently to induce neutralizing antitoxin antibodies in intraperitoneally or subcutaneously immunized mice. However, whether antibodies derived from this toxoid fusion are protective against ETEC diarrhea has not been examined. In this study, we intramuscularly immunized pregnant gilts with toxoid fusion 3xSTaN12S-dmLT, challenged suckling piglets with a STa-positive ETEC strain, and assessed protective efficacy of passive acquire antitoxin antibodies against ETEC diarrhea. Data showed all three immunized gilts developed anti-STa IgG and IgA antibodies, and piglets born to the immunized dams acquired anti-STa and anti-LT antibodies. When challenged with a STa+ ETEC strain, none of the piglets born to the immunized dams developed watery diarrhea, with 20 piglets remained normal and the other 8 piglets developed mild diarrhea indicated with stained butt. In contrast, the control dams and born piglets had no anti-STa or anti-LT antibodies detected, and 26 out 32 piglets developed watery diarrhea after challenge of the STa+ ETEC strain. These results indicated that passive acquired anti-STa antibodies are protective against ETEC diarrhea, and suggested potential application of toxoid fusion 3xSTaN12S-dmLT in ETEC vaccine development."},"28063704":{"title":"Immunization with Salmonella Enteritidis secreting mucosal adjuvant labile toxin confers protection against wild type challenge via augmentation of CD3+CD4+ T-cell proliferation and enhancement of IFN-γ, IL-6 and IL-10 expressions in chicken.","abstract":"The protective efficacy and immunological profiles of chickens immunized with an attenuated Salmonella Enteritidis (SE) constitutively secreting double mutant heat labile enterotoxin (dmLT) were investigated. The dmLT is a detoxified variant of Escherichia coli heat labile toxin and is a potent mucosal adjuvant capable of inducing both humoral and cell-mediated immunity. In this study, four-week-old chickens were inoculated with SE-dmLT strain JOL1641, parental SE strain JOL1087 or phosphate buffered saline control. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells of SE-dmLT inoculated birds showed significant proliferation upon stimulation with SE antigens as compared to the control and JOL1087 groups (P⩽0.05). One week post-challenge, the ratio of CD3+CD4+ to CD3+CD8+ T-cells showed a significant increase in the immunized groups. Significant increases in IFN-γ levels were observed in JOL1641 birds immunized via oral and intramuscular routes. While immunizations with the JOL1087 strain via the intramuscular route also induced significant increases in IFN-γ, immunization via the oral route did not trigger significant changes. Pro-inflammatory cytokine IL-6 was also elevated significantly in immunized birds; a significant elevation of IL-10 was observed only in oral immunization with JOL1641 (P⩽0.05). JOL1641 immunized birds showed significant reduction of challenge bacterial-organ recovery as compared to JOL1087 and non-immunized birds. Collectively, our results revealed that immunization with the adjuvant-secreting S. Enteritidis confers protection against wild type SE challenge via induction of strong cell proliferative response, augmentation of CD3+CD4+: CD3+CD8+ T-cells ratio and enhancement of IFN-γ, IL-6 and IL-10 cytokine secretion."},"28067290":{"title":"Chimeric virus-like particles containing influenza HA antigen and GPI-CCL28 induce long-lasting mucosal immunity against H3N2 viruses.","abstract":"Influenza virus is a significant cause of morbidity and mortality, with worldwide seasonal epidemics. The duration and quality of humoral immunity and generation of immunological memory to vaccines is critical for protective immunity. In the current study, we examined the long-lasting protective efficacy of chimeric VLPs (cVLPs) containing influenza HA and GPI-anchored CCL28 as antigen and mucosal adjuvant, respectively, when immunized intranasally in mice. We report that the cVLPs induced significantly higher and sustainable levels of virus-specific antibody responses, especially IgA levels and hemagglutination inhibition (HAI) titers, more than 8-month post-vaccination compared to influenza VLPs without CCL28 or influenza VLPs physically mixed with sCCL28 (soluble) in mice. After challenging the vaccinated animals at month 8 with H3N2 viruses, the cVLP group also demonstrated strong recall responses. On day 4 post-challenge, we measured increased antibody levels, ASCs and HAI titers with reduced viral load and inflammatory responses in the cVLP group. The animals vaccinated with the cVLP showed 20% cross-protection against drifted (Philippines) and 60% protection against homologous (Aichi) H3N2 viruses. Thus, the results suggest that the GPI-anchored CCL28 induces significantly higher mucosal antibody responses, involved in providing long-term cross-protection against H3N2 influenza virus when compared to other vaccination groups."},"28077601":{"title":"A New RNA-Based Adjuvant Enhances Virus-Specific Vaccine Responses by Locally Triggering TLR- and RLH-Dependent Effects.","abstract":"Among innovative adjuvants conferring a Th1-shift, RNAdjuvant is a promising candidate. This adjuvant consists of a 547-nt uncapped noncoding ssRNA containing polyU repeats that is stabilized by a cationic carrier peptide. Whereas vaccination of mice with an influenza subunit vaccine induced moderate virus-specific IgG1, vaccination together with RNAdjuvant significantly enhanced this IgG1 and additionally promoted the formation of IgG2b/c, which is indicative of Th1 responses. Furthermore, such sera neutralized influenza virus, whereas this effect was not detected upon vaccination with the subunit vaccine alone. Similarly, upon vaccination with virus-like particles displaying vesicular stomatitis virus G protein, RNAdjuvant promoted the formation of virus-specific IgG2b/c and enhanced neutralizing IgG responses to an extent that mice were protected against lethal virus infection. RNAdjuvant induced dendritic cells to upregulate activation markers and produce IFN-I. Although these effects were strictly TLR7 dependent, RNAdjuvant-mediated augmentation of vaccine responses needed concurrent TLR and RIG-I-like helicase signaling. This was indicated by the absence of the adjuvant effect in vaccinated MyD88-/-Cardif-/- mice, which are devoid of TLR (with the exception of TLR3) and RIG-I-like helicase signaling, whereas in vaccinated MyD88-/- mice the adjuvant effect was reduced. Notably, i.m. RNAdjuvant injection induced local IFN-I responses and did not induce systemic effects, implying good tolerability and a favorable safety profile for RNAdjuvant."},"28091576":{"title":"Adjuvant and carrier protein-dependent T-cell priming promotes a robust antibody response against the Plasmodium falciparum Pfs25 vaccine candidate.","abstract":"Humoral immune responses have the potential to maintain protective antibody levels for years due to the immunoglobulin-secreting activity of long-lived plasma cells (LLPCs). However, many subunit vaccines under development fail to generate robust LLPC responses, and therefore a variety of strategies are being employed to overcome this limitation, including conjugation to carrier proteins and/or formulation with potent adjuvants. Pfs25, an antigen expressed on malaria zygotes and ookinetes, is a leading transmission blocking vaccine (TBV) candidate for Plasmodium falciparum. Currently, the conjugate vaccine Pfs25-EPA/Alhydrogel is in Phase 1 clinical trials in the USA and Africa. Thus far, it has proven to be safe and immunogenic, but it is expected that a more potent formulation will be required to establish antibody titers that persist for several malaria transmission seasons. We sought to determine the contribution of carrier determinants and adjuvants in promoting high-titer, long-lived antibody responses against Pfs25. We found that both adjuvants and carrier proteins influence the magnitude and capacity of Pfs25-specific humoral responses to remain above a protective level. Furthermore, a liposomal adjuvant with QS21 and a TLR4 agonist (GLA-LSQ) was especially effective at inducing T follicular helper (Tfh) and LLPC responses to Pfs25 when coupled to immunogenic carrier proteins."},"28118938":{"title":"An accelerated rabies vaccine schedule based on toll-like receptor 3 (TLR3) agonist PIKA adjuvant augments rabies virus specific antibody and T cell response in healthy adult volunteers.","abstract":"Rabies is a fatal disease where post-exposure prophylaxis (PEP) is crucial in preventing infection. However, deaths even after appropriate PEP, have been reported. The PIKA Rabies vaccine adjuvant is a TLR3 agonist that activates B and T cells leading to a robust immune response. We conducted a phase I, open label, randomized study in healthy adults to assess the safety and immunogenicity of the PIKA Rabies vaccine and an accelerated vaccine regimen. Thirty-seven subjects were randomized into 3 groups: control vaccine classic regimen, PIKA vaccine classic regimen and PIKA vaccine accelerated regimen. Subjects were followed up for safety, rabies virus neutralizing antibodies (RVNA) and T cell responses. Both the control and PIKA Rabies vaccine were well tolerated. All adverse events (AEs) were mild and self-limiting. Seventy-five percent of subjects in the PIKA accelerated regimen achieved a RVNA titer ⩾0.5IU/mL on day 7, compared to 53.9% in the PIKA classic regimen (p=0.411) and 16.7% in control vaccine classic regimen (p=0.012). The PIKA rabies vaccine elicited multi-specific rabies CD4 mediated T cell response already detectable ex vivo at day 7 after vaccination and that was maintained at day 42. The investigational PIKA rabies vaccine was well tolerated and more immunogenic than the commercially available vaccine in healthy adults. Clinical trial registry: The study was registered with clinicaltrials.gov NCT02657161."},"28220116":{"title":"CpG-ODN Shapes Alum Adjuvant Activity Signaling via MyD88 and IL-10.","abstract":"Aluminum-containing adjuvants usually referred as Alum are considered as T helper type-2 (Th2) adjuvants, while agonists of toll-like receptors (TLRs) are viewed as adjuvants that favor Th1/Th17 immunity. Alum has been used in numerous vaccine formulations; however, its undesired pro-Th2 adjuvant activity constitutes a caveat for Alum-based vaccines. Combining Alum with TLR-dependent, pro-Th1/Th17 adjuvants might dampen the pro-Th2 activity and improve the effectiveness of vaccine formulations. Here, using the ovalbumin (OVA) model of allergic lung inflammation, we found that sensitization with the synthetic TLR9 agonist, which is composed of oligodeoxynucleotides containing CpG motifs adsorbed to Alum, inhibited the development of OVA-induced lung allergic Th2 responses without shifting toward a Th1 pattern. The conversion of T cell immunity from the polarized allergic Th2 response to a non-polarized form by sensitization with OVA/Alum/CpG was dependent on MyD88 signaling in myeloid cells. Notably, sensitization of IL-10-deficient mice with OVA/Alum/CpG resulted in the development of neutrophilic lung inflammation associated with IFNγ production. However, in IL-10/IL-12-deficient mice, it resulted in neutrophilic inflammation dominated by IL-17 production. We conclude that OVA/Alum/CpG sensitization signaling via MyD88 and IL-10 molecules results in non-polarized immunity. Conversely, OVA/Alum/CpG sensitization in presence of MyD88 but absence of IL-10 or IL-10/IL-12 molecules results, respectively, in neutrophilic inflammation associated with IFNγ or IL-17 production. Our work provides novel OVA models of lung inflammation and suggests that Alum/CpG-based formulations might be of potential use in anti-allergic or anti-infectious processes."},"28258198":{"title":"Novel Adjuvant Based on the Pore-Forming Protein Sticholysin II Encapsulated into Liposomes Effectively Enhances the Antigen-Specific CTL-Mediated Immune Response.","abstract":"Vaccine strategies to enhance CD8+ CTL responses remain a current challenge because they should overcome the plasmatic and endosomal membranes for favoring exogenous Ag access to the cytosol of APCs. As a way to avoid this hurdle, sticholysin (St) II, a pore-forming protein from the Caribbean Sea anemone Stichodactyla helianthus, was encapsulated with OVA into liposomes (Lp/OVA/StII) to assess their efficacy to induce a CTL response. OVA-specific CD8+ T cells transferred to mice immunized with Lp/OVA/StII experienced a greater expansion than when the recipients were injected with the vesicles without St, mostly exhibiting a memory phenotype. Consequently, Lp/OVA/StII induced a more potent effector function, as shown by CTLs, in vivo assays. Furthermore, treatment of E.G7-OVA tumor-bearing mice with Lp/OVA/StII significantly reduced tumor growth being more noticeable in the preventive assay. The contribution of CD4+ and CD8+ T cells to CTL and antitumor activity, respectively, was elucidated. Interestingly, the irreversibly inactive variant of the StI mutant StI W111C, encapsulated with OVA into Lp, elicited a similar OVA-specific CTL response to that observed with Lp/OVA/StII or vesicles encapsulating recombinant StI or the reversibly inactive StI W111C dimer. These findings suggest the relative independence between StII pore-forming activity and its immunomodulatory properties. In addition, StII-induced in vitro maturation of dendritic cells might be supporting these properties. These results are the first evidence, to our knowledge, that StII, a pore-forming protein from a marine eukaryotic organism, encapsulated into Lp functions as an adjuvant to induce a robust specific CTL response."},"28275375":{"title":"A Comparative Phase I Study of Combination, Homologous Subtype-C DNA, MVA, and Env gp140 Protein/Adjuvant HIV Vaccines in Two Immunization Regimes.","abstract":"There remains an urgent need for a prophylactic HIV vaccine. We compared combined MVA and adjuvanted gp140 to sequential MVA/gp140 after DNA priming. We expected Env-specific CD4+ T-cells after DNA and MVA priming, and Env-binding antibodies in 100% individuals after boosting with gp140 and that combined vaccines would not compromise safety and might augment immunogenicity. Forty volunteers were primed three times with DNA plasmids encoding (CN54) env and (ZM96) gag-pol-nef at 0, 4 and 8 weeks then boosted with MVA-C (CN54 env and gag-pol-nef) and glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant-aqueous formulation (GLA-AF) adjuvanted CN54gp140. They were randomised to receive them in combination at the same visit at 16 and 20 weeks (accelerated) or sequentially with MVA-C at 16, 20, and GLA-AF/gp140 at 24 and 28 weeks (standard). All vaccinations were intramuscular. Primary outcomes included ≥grade 3 safety events and the titer of CN54gp140-specific binding IgG. Other outcomes included neutralization, binding antibody specificity and T-cell responses. Two participants experienced asymptomatic ≥grade 3 transaminitis leading to discontinuation of vaccinations, and three had grade 3 solicited local or systemic reactions. A total of 100% made anti-CN54gp140 IgG and combining vaccines did not significantly alter the response; geometric mean titer 6424 (accelerated) and 6578 (standard); neutralization of MW965.2 Tier 1 pseudovirus was superior in the standard group (82 versus 45% responders, p = 0.04). T-cell ELISpot responses were CD4+ and Env-dominant; 85 and 82% responding in the accelerated and standard groups, respectively. Vaccine-induced IgG responses targeted multiple regions within gp120 with the V3 region most immunodominant and no differences between groups detected. Combining MVA and gp140 vaccines did not result in increased adverse events and did not significantly impact upon the titer of Env-specific binding antibodies, which were seen in 100% individuals. The approach did however affect other immune responses; neutralizing antibody responses, seen only to Tier 1 pseudoviruses, were poorer when the vaccines were combined and while T-cell responses were seen in >80% individuals in both groups and similarly CD4 and Env dominant, their breadth/polyfunctionality tended to be lower when the vaccines were combined, suggesting attenuation of immunogenicity and cautioning against this accelerated regimen."},"28298421":{"title":"Mimicry of an HIV broadly neutralizing antibody epitope with a synthetic glycopeptide.","abstract":"A goal for an HIV-1 vaccine is to overcome virus variability by inducing broadly neutralizing antibodies (bnAbs). One key target of bnAbs is the glycan-polypeptide at the base of the envelope (Env) third variable loop (V3). We have designed and synthesized a homogeneous minimal immunogen with high-mannose glycans reflective of a native Env V3-glycan bnAb epitope (Man9-V3). V3-glycan bnAbs bound to Man9-V3 glycopeptide and native-like gp140 trimers with similar affinities. Fluorophore-labeled Man9-V3 glycopeptides bound to bnAb memory B cells and were able to be used to isolate a V3-glycan bnAb from an HIV-1-infected individual. In rhesus macaques, immunization with Man9-V3 induced V3-glycan-targeted antibodies. Thus, the Man9-V3 glycopeptide closely mimics an HIV-1 V3-glycan bnAb epitope and can be used to isolate V3-glycan bnAbs."},"28301280":{"title":"Panblok-H1+advax H1N1/2009pdm vaccine: Insights into rapid development of a delta inulin adjuvanted recombinant pandemic influenza vaccine.","abstract":"Timely vaccine supply is critical during influenza pandemics but is impeded by current virus-based manufacturing methods. The 2009 H1N1/2009pdm 'swine flu' pandemic reinforced the need for innovation in pandemic vaccine design. We report on insights gained during rapid development of a pandemic vaccine based on recombinant haemagglutinin (rHA) formulated with Advax™ delta inulin adjuvant (Panblok-H1/Advax). Panblok-H1/Advax was designed and manufactured within 1 month of the pandemic declaration by WHO and successfully entered human clinical testing in under 3 months from first isolation and sequencing of the novel pandemic virus, requiring several major challenges to be overcome. Panblok-H1/Advax successfully induced neutralising antibodies against the pandemic strain, but also induced cross-neutralising antibodies in a subset of subjects against an H1N1 strain (A/Puerto Rico/8/34) derived from the 1918 Spanish flu, highlighting the possibility to use Advax to induce more broadly cross-protective antibody responses. Interestingly, the rHA from H1N1/2009pdm exhibited variants in the receptor binding domain that had a major impact on receptor binding and hemagglutination ability. We used an in silico structural modeling approach to better understand the unusual behavior of the novel hemagglutinin, thereby demonstrating the power of computational modeling approaches for rapid characterization of new pandemic viruses. While challenges remain in ensuring ultrafast vaccine access for the entire population in response to future pandemics, the adjuvanted recombinant Panblok-H1/Advax vaccine proved its utility during a real-life pandemic situation."},"28347293":{"title":"Comparison of a novel microcrystalline tyrosine adjuvant with aluminium hydroxide for enhancing vaccination against seasonal influenza.","abstract":"Vaccination against seasonal influenza strains is recommended for \"high risk\" patient groups such as infants, elderly and those with respiratory or circulatory diseases. However, efficacy of the trivalent influenza vaccine (TIV) is poor in many cases and in the event of an influenza pandemic, mono-valent vaccines have been rapidly developed and deployed. One of the main issues with use of vaccine in pandemic situations is the lack of a suitable quantity of vaccine early enough during the pandemic to exert a major influence on the transmission of virus and disease outcome. One approach is to use a dose-sparing regimen which inevitably involves enhancing the efficacy using adjuvants. In this study we compare the use of a novel microcrystalline tyrosine (MCT) adjuvant, which is currently used in a niche area of allergy immunotherapy, for its ability to enhance the efficacy of a seasonal TIV preparation. The efficacy of the MCT adjuvant formulation was compared to alum adjuvanted TIV and to TIV administered without adjuvant using a ferret challenge model to determine vaccine efficacy. The MCT was found to possess high protein-binding capacity. In the two groups where TIV was formulated with adjuvant, the immune response was found to be higher (as determined by HAI titre) than vaccine administered without adjuvant and especially so after challenge with a live influenza virus. Vaccinated animals exhibited lower viral loads (as determined using RT-PCR) than control animals where no vaccine was administered. The attributes of each adjuvant in stimulating single-dose protection against a poorly immunogenic vaccine was demonstrated. The properties of MCT that lead to the reported effectiveness warrants further exploration in this and other vaccine targets - particularly where appropriate immunogenic, biodegradable and stable alternative adjuvants are sought."},"28414746":{"title":"Local Th17/IgA immunity correlate with protection against intranasal infection with Streptococcus pyogenes.","abstract":"Streptococcus pyogenes (group A streptococcus, GAS) is responsible for a wide array of infections. Respiratory transmission via droplets is the most common mode of transmission but it may also infect the host via other routes such as lesions in the skin. To advance the development of a future vaccine against GAS, it is therefore important to investigate how protective immunity is related to the route of vaccine administration. To explore this, we examined whether a parenterally administered anti-GAS vaccine could protect against an intranasal GAS infection or if this would require locally primed immunity. We foundd that a parenteral CAF01 adjuvanted GAS vaccine offered no protection against intranasal infection despite inducing strong systemic Th1/Th17/IgG immunity that efficiently protected against an intraperitoneal GAS infection. However, the same vaccine administered via the intranasal route was able to induce protection against repeated intranasal GAS infections in a murine challenge model. The lack of intranasal protection induced by the parenteral vaccine correlated with a reduced mucosal recall response at the site of infection. Taken together, our results demonstrate that locally primed immunity is important for the defense against intranasal infection with Streptococcus pyogenes."},"28429728":{"title":"A Formulated TLR7/8 Agonist is a Flexible, Highly Potent and Effective Adjuvant for Pandemic Influenza Vaccines.","abstract":"Since 1997, highly pathogenic avian influenza viruses of the H5N1 subtype have been transmitted from avian hosts to humans. The severity of H5N1 infection in humans, as well as the sporadic nature of H5N1 outbreaks, both geographically and temporally, make generation of an effective vaccine a global public health priority. An effective H5N1 vaccine must ultimately provide protection against viruses from diverse clades. Toll-like receptor (TLR) agonist adjuvant formulations have a demonstrated ability to broaden H5N1 vaccine responses in pre-clinical models. However, many of these agonist molecules have proven difficult to develop clinically. Here, we describe comprehensive adjuvant formulation development of the imidazoquinoline TLR-7/8 agonist 3M-052, in combination with H5N1 hemagglutinin (HA) based antigens. We find that 3M-052 in multiple formulations protects both mice and ferrets from lethal H5N1 homologous virus challenge. Furthermore, we conclusively demonstrate the ability of 3M-052 adjuvant formulations to broaden responses to H5N1 HA based antigens, and show that this broadening is functional using a heterologous lethal virus challenge in ferrets. Given the extensive clinical use of imidazoquinoline TLR agonists for other indications, these studies identify multiple adjuvant formulations which may be rapidly advanced into clinical trials in an H5N1 vaccine."},"28464026":{"title":"Safety and immunogenicity of the Na-GST-1 hookworm vaccine in Brazilian and American adults.","abstract":"Necator americanus Glutathione-S-Transferase-1 (Na-GST-1) plays a role in the digestion of host hemoglobin by adult N. americanus hookworms. Vaccination of laboratory animals with recombinant Na-GST-1 is associated with significant protection from challenge infection. Recombinant Na-GST-1 was expressed in Pichia pastoris and adsorbed to aluminum hydroxide adjuvant (Alhydrogel) according to current Good Manufacturing Practice. Two Phase 1 trials were conducted in 142 healthy adult volunteers in the United States and Brazil, first in hookworm-naïve individuals and then in residents of a N. americanus endemic area in Brazil. Volunteers received one of three doses of recombinant Na-GST-1 (10, 30, or 100 μg) adjuvanted with Alhydrogel, adjuvanted with Alhydrogel and co-administered with an aqueous formulation of Glucopyranosyl Lipid A (GLA-AF), or the hepatitis B vaccine. Vaccinations were administered via intramuscular injection on days 0, 56, and 112. Na-GST-1/Alhydrogel was well tolerated in both hookworm-naïve and hookworm-exposed adults, with the most common adverse events being mild to moderate injection site pain and tenderness, and mild headache and nausea; no vaccine-related severe or serious adverse events were observed. Antigen-specific IgG antibodies were induced in a dose-dependent fashion, with increasing levels observed after each vaccination in both trials. The addition of GLA-AF to Na-GST-1/Alhydrogel did not result in significant increases in specific IgG responses. In both the US and Brazil studies, the predominant IgG subclass induced against Na-GST-1 was IgG1, with lesser amounts of IgG3. Vaccination of both hookworm-naïve and hookworm-exposed adults with recombinant Na-GST-1 was safe, well tolerated, and resulted in significant antigen-specific IgG responses. Based on these results, this vaccine will be advanced into clinical trials in children and eventual efficacy studies. ClinicalTrials.gov (NCT01261130 for the Brazil trial and NCT01385189 for the US trial)."},"28468322":{"title":"Virus-Like Particle (VLP) Plus Microcrystalline Tyrosine (MCT) Adjuvants Enhance Vaccine Efficacy Improving T and B Cell Immunogenicity and Protection against Plasmodium berghei/vivax.","abstract":"Vaccination is the most effective prophylactic tool against infectious diseases. Despite continued efforts to control malaria, the disease still generally represents a significant unmet medical need. Microcrystalline tyrosine (MCT) is a well described depot used in licensed allergy immunotherapy products and in clinical development. However, its proof of concept in prophylactic vaccines has only recently been explored. MCT has never been used in combination with virus-like particles (VLPs), which are considered to be one of the most potent inducers of cellular and humoral immune responses in mice and humans. In the current study we assessed the potential of MCT to serve as an adjuvant in the development of a vaccine against malaria either alone or combined with VLP using Plasmodium vivax thrombospondin-related adhesive protein (TRAP) as a target antigen. We chemically coupled PvTRAP to VLPs derived from the cucumber mosaic virus fused to a universal T-cell epitope of the tetanus toxin (CMVtt), formulated with MCT and compared the induced immune responses to PvTRAP formulated in PBS or Alum. The protective capacity of the various formulations was assessed using Plasmodium berghei expressing PvTRAP. All vaccine formulations using adjuvants and/or VLP increased humoral immunogenicity for PvTRAP compared to the antigen alone. The most proficient responder was the group of mice immunized with the vaccine formulated with PvTRAP-VLP + MCT. The VLP-based vaccine formulated in MCT also induced the strongest T cell response and conferred best protection against challenge with recombinant Plasmodium berghei. Thus, the combination of VLP with MCT may take advantage of the properties of each component and appears to be an alternative biodegradable depot adjuvant for development of novel prophylactic vaccines."},"28483194":{"title":"Co-localization of a CD1d-binding glycolipid with an adenovirus-based malaria vaccine for a potent adjuvant effect.","abstract":"A CD1d-binding, invariant (i) natural killer T (NKT)-cell stimulatory glycolipid, α-Galactosylceramide (αGalCer), has been shown to act as an adjuvant. We previously identified a fluorinated phenyl ring-modified αGalCer analog, 7DW8-5, displaying a higher binding affinity for CD1d molecule and more potent adjuvant activity than αGalCer. In the present study, 7DW8-5 co-administered intramuscularly (i.m.) with a recombinant adenovirus expressing a Plasmodium yoelii circumsporozoite protein (PyCSP), AdPyCS, has led to a co-localization of 7DW8-5 and a PyCSP in draining lymph nodes (dLNs), particularly in dendritic cells (DCs). This occurrence initiates a cascade of events, such as the recruitment of DCs to dLNs and their activation and maturation, and the enhancement of the ability of DCs to prime CD8+ T cells induced by AdPyCS and ultimately leading to a potent adjuvant effect and protection against malaria."},"28487429":{"title":"Rationally Designed TLR4 Ligands for Vaccine Adjuvant Discovery.","abstract":"Adjuvant properties of bacterial cell wall components like MPLA (monophosphoryl lipid A) are well described and have gained FDA approval for use in vaccines such as Cervarix. MPLA is the product of chemically modified lipooligosaccharide (LOS), altered to diminish toxic proinflammatory effects while retaining adequate immunogenicity. Despite the virtually unlimited number of potential sources among bacterial strains, the number of useable compounds within this promising class of adjuvants are few. We have developed bacterial enzymatic combinatorial chemistry (BECC) as a method to generate rationally designed, functionally diverse lipid A. BECC removes endogenous or introduces exogenous lipid A-modifying enzymes to bacteria, effectively reprogramming the lipid A biosynthetic pathway. In this study, BECC is applied within an avirulent strain of Yersinia pestis to develop structurally distinct LOS molecules that elicit differential Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) activation. Using reporter cell lines that measure NF-κB activation, BECC-derived molecules were screened for the ability to induce a lower proinflammatory response than Escherichia coli LOS. Their structures exhibit varied, dose-dependent, TLR4-driven NF-κB activation with both human and mouse TLR4 complexes. Additional cytokine secretion screening identified molecules that induce levels of tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) and interleukin-8 (IL-8) comparable to the levels induced by phosphorylated hexa-acyl disaccharide (PHAD). The lead candidates demonstrated potent immunostimulation in mouse splenocytes, human primary blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs), and human monocyte-derived dendritic cells (DCs). This newly described system allows directed programming of lipid A synthesis and has the potential to generate a diverse array of TLR4 agonist candidates.IMPORTANCE There is an urgent need to develop effective vaccines against infectious diseases that continue to be major causes of morbidity and mortality worldwide. Making effective vaccines requires selecting an adjuvant to strengthen an appropriate and protective immune response. This work describes a practical method, bacterial enzymatic combinatorial chemistry (BECC), for generating functionally diverse molecules for adjuvant use. These molecules were analyzed in cell culture for their ability to initiate immune stimulatory activity. Several of the assays described herein show promising in vitro cytokine production and costimulatory molecule expression results, suggesting that the BECC molecules may be useful in future vaccine preparations."},"28516400":{"title":"Systematic Investigation of the Role of Surfactant Composition and Choice of oil: Design of a Nanoemulsion-Based Adjuvant Inducing Concomitant Humoral and CD4+ T-Cell Responses.","abstract":"Induction of cell-mediated immune (CMI) responses is crucial for vaccine-mediated protection against difficult vaccine targets, e.g., Chlamydia trachomatis (Ct). Adjuvants are included in subunit vaccines to potentiate immune responses, but many marketed adjuvants stimulate predominantly humoral immune responses. Therefore, there is an unmet medical need for new adjuvants, which potentiate humoral and CMI responses. The purpose was to design an oil-in-water nanoemulsion adjuvant containing a synthetic CMI-inducing mycobacterial monomycoloyl glycerol (MMG) analogue to concomitantly induce humoral and CMI responses. The influence of emulsion composition was analyzed using a systematic approach. Three factors were varied: i) saturation of the oil phase, ii) type and saturation of the applied surfactant mixture, and iii) surfactant mixture net charge. The emulsions were colloidally stable with a droplet diameter of 150-250 nm, and the zeta-potential correlated closely with the net charge of the surfactant mixture. Only cationic emulsions containing the unsaturated surfactant mixture induced concomitant humoral and CMI responses upon immunization of mice with a Ct antigen, and the responses were enhanced when squalene was applied as the oil phase. In contrast, emulsions with neutral and net negative zeta-potentials did not induce CMI responses. The saturation degree of the oil phase did not influence the adjuvanticity. Cationic, MMG analogue-containing nanoemulsions are potential adjuvants for vaccines against pathogens for which both humoral and CMI responses are needed."},"28551040":{"title":"Development of a candidate stabilizing formulation for bulk storage of a double mutant heat labile toxin (dmLT) protein based adjuvant.","abstract":"This work describes the formulation design and development of a novel protein based adjuvant, a double mutant of heat labile toxin (dmLT), based on knowledge of the protein's structural integrity and physicochemical degradation pathways. Various classes of pharmaceutical excipients were screened for their stabilizing effect on dmLT during exposure to thermal and agitation stresses as monitored by high throughput analytical assays for dmLT degradation. Sucrose, phosphate, sodium chloride, methionine and polysorbate-80 were identified as potential stabilizers that protected dmLT against either conformational destabilization, aggregation/particle formation or chemical degradation (e.g., Met oxidation and Lys glycation). Different combinations and concentrations of the selected stabilizers were then evaluated to further optimize dmLT stability while maintaining pharmaceutically acceptable ranges of solution pH and osmolality. The effect of multiple freeze-thaw (FT) cycles on the physical stability of candidate bulk formulations was also examined. Increasing the polysorbate-80 concentration to 0.1% in the lead candidate bulk formulation mitigated the loss of protein mass during FT. This formulation development study enabled the design of a new bulk formulation of the dmLT adjuvant and provides flexibility for future use in combination with a variety of different vaccine dosage forms with different antigens."},"28596770":{"title":"A Phase 1 Human Immunodeficiency Virus Vaccine Trial for Cross-Profiling the Kinetics of Serum and Mucosal Antibody Responses to CN54gp140 Modulated by Two Homologous Prime-Boost Vaccine Regimens.","abstract":"A key aspect to finding an efficacious human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) vaccine is the optimization of vaccine schedules that can mediate the efficient maturation of protective immune responses. In the present study, we investigated the effect of alternate booster regimens on the immune responses to a candidate HIV-1 clade C CN54gp140 envelope protein, which was coadministered with the TLR4-agonist glucopyranosyl lipid A-aqueous formulation. Twelve study participants received a common three-dose intramuscular priming series followed by a final booster at either 6 or 12 months. The two homologous prime-boost regimens were well tolerated and induced CN54gp140-specific responses that were observed in both the systemic and mucosal compartments. Levels of vaccine-induced IgG-subclass antibodies correlated significantly with FcγR engagement, and both vaccine regimens were associated with strikingly similar patterns in antibody titer and FcγR-binding profiles. In both groups, identical changes in the antigen (Ag)-specific IgG-subclass fingerprint, leading to a decrease in IgG1 and an increase in IgG4 levels, were modulated by booster injections. Here, the dissection of immune profiles further supports the notion that prime-boost strategies are essential for the induction of diverse Ag-specific HIV-1 responses. The results reported here clearly demonstrate that identical responses were effectively and safely induced by both vaccine regimens, indicating that an accelerated 6-month regimen could be employed for the rapid induction of immune responses against CN54gp140 with no apparent impact on the overall quality of the induced immune response. (This study has been registered at http://ClinicalTrials.gov under registration no. NCT01966900.)."},"28602608":{"title":"Multistage vaccines containing outer membrane, type III secretion system and inclusion membrane proteins protects against a Chlamydia genital tract infection and pathology.","abstract":"Pathogens with a complex lifecycles can effectively evade host immunity in part due to each developmental stage expressing unique sets of antigens. Multisubunit vaccines incorporating signature antigens reflecting distinct developmental stages (multistage vaccines) have proven effective against viral, bacterial and parasitic infection at preventing pathogen evasion of host immunity. Chlamydia trachomatis is characterized by a biphasic extra/intracellular developmental cycle and an acute/persistent (latent) metabolic state; hence a multistage vaccine may prevent immune evasion and enhance clearance. Here we tested the efficacy of a multistage vaccine containing outer membrane (MOMP and PmpG), type three secretion system (T3SS) (CdsF and TC0873) and inclusion membrane proteins (IncA and TC0500) in mice against an intravaginal challenge with Chlamydia muridarum. Comparison of single (eg. MOMP) and double antigen vaccines (eg. MOMP and PmpG), largely targeting the extracellular stage, elicited significant yet comparable protection against vaginal shedding when compared to unimmunized control mice. Utilization of different adjuvants (ISCOMATRIX - IMX, PCEP/polyI:C/IDR1002 - VIDO, CTA1-DD and ADVAX) and numerous immunization routes (subcutaneous - SQ and intranasal - IN) further enhanced protection against infection. However, a multistage vaccine elicited significantly greater protection against vaginal shedding and upper genital tract pathology than vaccines targeting only extra- or intracellular stages. This indicates that protection elicited by a vaccine targeting extracellular chlamydial antigens could be improved by including chlamydial antigen expressed during intracellular phase."},"28646827":{"title":"Immunization of C57BL/6 Mice with GRA2 Combined with MPL Conferred Partial Immune Protection against Toxoplasma gondii.","abstract":"We have previously reported that immunization with GRA2 antigen of Toxoplasma gondii induces protective immunity in CBA/J (H2k) and BALB/c mice (H2d). We aimed to examine whether immunization of a distinct strain of rodent with recombinant dense granule antigens (GRA2) combined with monophosphorryl lipid A (MPL) adjuvant elicits protective immune response against T. gondii. C57BL/6 (H2b haplotype) mice were immunized with GRA2, formulated in MPL adjuvant. Strong humoral response, predominantly of IgG1 subclass and cellular response, IFN-γ, was detected at three weeks post immunization. Mice immunized with GRA2 had significantly (p < 0.01) fewer brain cysts than those in the adjuvant group, upon challenge infection. Despite the production of a strong antibody response, IFN-γ production and brain cyst reduction were not significant when the immunized mice were infected four months after the immunization. We can conclude that GRA2 immunization partially protects against T. gondii infection in C57BL/6 mice, though the potency and longevity of this antigen as a standalone vaccine may vary in distinct genetic backgrounds. This observation further emphasizes the utility of GRA2 for incorporation into a multi-antigenic vaccine against T. gondii."},"28676380":{"title":"Investigation of the biodistribution, breakdown and excretion of delta inulin adjuvant.","abstract":"Insoluble, nanostructured delta inulin particles enhance the immunogenicity of co-administered protein antigens and consequently are used as a vaccine adjuvant (Advax™). To better understand their immunomodulatory properties, the in vitro hydrolysis and in vivo distribution of delta inulin particles were investigated. Delta inulin particle hydrolysis under bio-relevant acidic conditions resulted in no observable change to the bulk morphology using SEM, and HPLC results showed that only 6.1% of the inulin was hydrolysed over 21days. However, 65% of the terminal glucose groups were released, showing that acid hydrolysis relatively rapidly releases surface bound chemistries. This was used to explain in vivo biodistribution results in which delta inulin particles surface-labelled with fluorescein-5-thiosemicabizide were administered to mice using intramuscular (I.M.) or subcutaneous (S.C.) routes. Comparison analysis of the fluorescence of soluble inulin in the supernatants of homogenised tissues maintained at room temperature or heated to 100°C to solubilise particulate inulin was used to distinguish between fluorescent probe on soluble inulin and probe bound to inulin within particles. Following both I.M. and S.C. injection delta inulin exhibited a depot behaviour with local injection site residence for several weeks. Over this time, as injection site inulin reduced, there was measurable transport of intact delta inulin particles by macrophages to secondary lymphoid organs and the liver. Ultimately, the injected delta inulin became solubilised resulting in its detection in the plasma and in the urine. Thus injected delta inulin particles are initially taken up by macrophages at the site of injection, trafficked to secondary lymphoid tissue and the liver, and hydrolysed resulting in their becoming soluble and diffusing into the blood stream, from whence they are glomerularly filtered and excreted into the urine. These results provide important insights into the biodistribution of I.M. or S.C. injected delta inulin particles when used as vaccine adjuvants and their method of excretion."},"28716554":{"title":"Calcium phosphate nanoparticle (CaPNP) for dose-sparing of inactivated whole virus pandemic influenza A (H1N1) 2009 vaccine in mice.","abstract":"The emergence of pandemic influenza strains, particularly the reemergence of the swine-derived influenza A (H1N1) in 2009, is reaffirmation that influenza viruses are very adaptable and influenza remains as a significant global public health treat. As recommended by the World Health Organization (WHO), the use of adjuvants is an attractive approach to improve vaccine efficacy and allow dose-sparing during an influenza emergency. In this study, we utilized CaPtivate Pharmaceutical's proprietary calcium phosphate nanoparticles (CaPNP) vaccine adjuvant and delivery platform to formulate an inactivated whole virus influenza A/CA/04/2009 (H1N1pdm) vaccine as a potential dose-sparing strategy. We evaluated the relative immunogenicity and the efficacy of the formulation in BALB/c mice following single intramuscularly administration of three different doses (0.3, 1, or 3µg based on HA content) of the vaccine in comparison to non-adjuvanted or alum-adjuvant vaccines. We showed that, addition of CaPNP in vaccine elicited significantly higher hemagglutination inhibition (HAI), virus neutralization (VN), and IgG antibody titers, at all dose levels, relative to the non-adjuvanted vaccine. In addition, the vaccine containing CaPNP provided equal protection with 1/3rd of the antigen dose as compared to the non-adjuvanted or alum-adjuvanted vaccines. Our data provided support to earlier studies indicating that CaPNP is an attractive vaccine adjuvant and delivery system and should play an important role in the development of safe and efficacious dose-sparing vaccines. Our findings also warrant further investigation to validate CaPNP's capacity as an alternative adjuvant to the ones currently licensed for influenza/pandemic influenza vaccination."},"28724768":{"title":"Synthetic Toll-Like Receptor 4 (TLR4) and TLR7 Ligands Work Additively via MyD88 To Induce Protective Antiviral Immunity in Mice.","abstract":"We previously demonstrated that the combination of synthetic small-molecule Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) and TLR7 ligands is a potent adjuvant for recombinant influenza virus hemagglutinin, inducing rapid and sustained immunity that is protective against influenza viruses in homologous, heterologous, and heterosubtypic murine challenge models. Combining the TLR4 and TLR7 ligands balances Th1 and Th2-type immune responses for long-lived cellular and neutralizing humoral immunity against the viral hemagglutinin. Here, we demonstrate that the protective response induced in mice by this combined adjuvant is dependent upon TLR4 and TLR7 signaling via myeloid differentiation primary response gene 88 (MyD88), indicating that the adjuvants function in vivo via their known receptors, with negligible off-target effects, to induce protective immunity. The combined adjuvant acts via MyD88 in both bone marrow-derived and non-bone marrow-derived radioresistant cells to induce hemagglutinin-specific antibodies and protect mice against influenza virus challenge. The protective efficacy generated by immunization with this adjuvant and recombinant hemagglutinin antigen is transferable with serum from immunized mice to recipient mice in a homologous, but not a heterologous, H1N1 viral challenge model. Depletion of CD4+ cells after an established humoral response in immunized mice does not impair protection from a homologous challenge; however, it does significantly impair recovery from a heterologous challenge virus, highlighting an important role for vaccine-induced CD4+ cells in cross-protective vaccine efficacy. The combination of the two TLR agonists allows for significant dose reductions of each component to achieve a level of protection equivalent to that afforded by either single agent at its full dose.IMPORTANCE Development of novel adjuvants is needed to enhance immunogenicity to provide better protection from seasonal influenza virus infection and improve pandemic preparedness. We show here that several dose combinations of synthetic TLR4 and TLR7 ligands are potent adjuvants for recombinant influenza virus hemagglutinin antigen induction of humoral and cellular immunity against viral challenges. The components of the combined adjuvant work additively to enable both antigen and adjuvant dose sparing while retaining efficacy. Understanding an adjuvant's mechanism of action is a critical component for preclinical safety evaluation, and we demonstrate here that a combined TLR4 and TLR7 adjuvant signals via the appropriate receptors and the MyD88 adaptor protein. This novel adjuvant combination contributes to a more broadly protective vaccine while demonstrating an attractive safety profile."},"28758637":{"title":"DNA prime/protein boost vaccination elicits robust humoral response in rhesus macaques using oligomeric simian immunodeficiency virus envelope and Advax delta inulin adjuvant.","abstract":"The partial success of the RV144 trial underscores the importance of envelope-specific antibody responses for an effective HIV-1 vaccine. Oligomeric HIV-1 envelope proteins delivered with a potent adjuvant are expected to elicit strong antibody responses with broad neutralization specificity. To test this hypothesis, two SIV envelope proteins were formulated with delta inulin-based adjuvant (Advax) and used to immunize nonhuman primates. Oligomeric gp140-gp145 from SIVmac251 and SIVsmE660 was purified to homogeneity. Oligomers showed high-affinity interaction with CD4 and were highly immunogenic in rabbits, inducing Tier 2 SIV-neutralizing antibodies. The immunogenicity of an oligomeric Env DNA prime and protein boost together with Advax was evaluated in Chinese rhesus macaques. DNA administration elicited antibodies to both envelopes, and titres were markedly enhanced following homologous protein boosts via intranasal and intramuscular routes. Strong antibody responses were detected against the V1 and V2 domains of gp120. During peak immune responses, a low to moderate level of neutralizing activity was detected against Tier 1A/1B SIV isolates, with a moderate level noted against a Tier 2 isolate. Increased serum antibody affinity to SIVmac251 gp140 and generation of Env-specific memory B cells were observed in the immunized macaques. Animals were subjected to low-dose intravaginal challenge with SIVmac251 one week after the last protein boost. One out of three immunized animals was protected from infection. Although performed with a small number of macaques, this study demonstrates the utility of oligomeric envelopes formulated with Advax in eliciting broad antibody responses with the potential to provide protection against SIV transmission."},"28780391":{"title":"Structural Characterization and Physicochemical Stability Profile of a Double Mutant Heat Labile Toxin Protein Based Adjuvant.","abstract":"A novel protein adjuvant double-mutant Escherichia coli heat-labile toxin, LT (R192G/L211A) or dmLT, is in preclinical and early clinical development with various vaccine candidates. Structural characterization and formulation development of dmLT will play a key role in its successful process development, scale-up/transfer, and commercial manufacturing. This work describes extensive analytical characterization of structural integrity and physicochemical stability profile of dmLT from a lyophilized clinical formulation. Reconstituted dmLT contained a heterogeneous mixture of intact holotoxin (AB5, ∼75%) and free B5 subunit (∼25%) as assessed by analytical ultracentrifugation and hydrophobic interaction chromatography. Intact mass spectrometry (MS) analysis revealed presence of Lys84 glycation near the native sugar-binding site in dmLT, and forced degradation studies using liquid chromatography-MS peptide mapping demonstrated specific Asn deamidation and Met oxidation sites. Using multiple biophysical measurements, dmLT was found most stable between pH 6.5 and 7.5 and at temperatures ≤50°C. In addition, soluble aggregates and particle formation were observed upon shaking stress. By identifying the physicochemical degradation pathways of dmLT using newly developed stability-indicating analytical methods from this study, we aim at developing more stable candidate formulations of dmLT that will minimize the formation of degradants and improve storage stability, as both a frozen bulk substance and eventually as a liquid final dosage form."},"28792004":{"title":"Adjuvant selection regulates gut migration and phenotypic diversity of antigen-specific CD4+ T cells following parenteral immunization.","abstract":"Infectious diarrheal diseases are the second leading cause of death in children under 5 years, making vaccines against these diseases a high priority. It is known that certain vaccine adjuvants, chiefly bacterial ADP-ribosylating enterotoxins, can induce mucosal antibodies when delivered parenterally. Based on this, we reasoned vaccine-specific mucosal cellular immunity could be induced via parenteral immunization with these adjuvants. Here, we show that, in contrast to the Toll-like receptor-9 agonist CpG, intradermal immunization with non-toxic double-mutant heat-labile toxin (dmLT) from enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli drove endogenous, antigen-specific CD4+ T cells to expand and upregulate the gut-homing integrin α4β7. This was followed by T-cell migration into gut-draining lymph nodes and both small and large intestines. We also found that dmLT produces a balanced T-helper 1 and 17 (Th1 and Th17) response, whereas T cells from CpG immunized mice were predominantly Th1. Immunization with dmLT preferentially engaged CD103+ dendritic cells (DCs) compared with CpG, and mice deficient in CD103+ DCs were unable to fully license antigen-specific T-cell migration to the intestinal mucosae following parenteral immunization. This work has the potential to redirect the design of existing and next generation vaccines to elicit pathogen-specific immunity in the intestinal tract with non-mucosal immunization."},"28793349":{"title":"Ligation of Dectin-2 with a novel microbial ligand promotes adjuvant activity for vaccination.","abstract":"The development of vaccines against fungi and other intracellular microbes is impeded in part by a lack of suitable adjuvants. While most current vaccines against infectious diseases preferentially induce production of antibodies, cellular immunity is essential for the resolution of fungal infections. Microbes such as fungi and Mycobacterium tuberculosis require Th17 and Th1 cells for resistance, and engage the C-type lectin receptors including Dectin-2. Herein, we discovered a novel Dectin-2 ligand, the glycoprotein Blastomyces Eng2 (Bl-Eng2). Bl-Eng2 triggers robust signaling in Dectin-2 reporter cells and induces IL-6 in human PBMC and BMDC from wild type but not Dectin-2-/- and Card9-/- mice. The addition of Bl-Eng2 to a pan-fungal subunit vaccine primed large numbers of Ag-specific Th17 and Th1 cells, augmented activation and killing of fungi by myeloid effector cells, and protected mice from lethal fungal challenge, revealing Bl-Eng2's potency as a vaccine adjuvant. Thus, ligation of Dectin-2 by Bl-Eng-2 could be harnessed as a novel adjuvant strategy to protect against infectious diseases requiring cellular immunity."},"28819247":{"title":"Delta inulin-based adjuvants promote the generation of polyfunctional CD4+ T cell responses and protection against Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection.","abstract":"There is an urgent need for the rational design of safe and effective vaccines to protect against chronic bacterial pathogens such as Mycobacterium tuberculosis. Advax™ is a novel adjuvant based on delta inulin microparticles that enhances immunity with a minimal inflammatory profile and has entered human trials to protect against viral pathogens. In this report we determined if Advax displays broad applicability against important human pathogens by assessing protective immunity against infection with M. tuberculosis. The fusion protein CysVac2, comprising the M. tuberculosis antigens Ag85B (Rv1886c) and CysD (Rv1285) formulated with Advax provided significant protection in the lungs of M. tuberculosis-infected mice. Protection was associated with the generation of CysVac2-specific multifunctional CD4+ T cells (IFN-γ+TNF+IL-2+). Addition to Advax of the TLR9 agonist, CpG oligonucleotide (AdvaxCpG), improved both the immunogenicity and protective efficacy of CysVac2. Immunisation with CysVac2/AdvaxCpG resulted in heightened release of the chemoattractants, CXCL1, CCL3, and TNF, and rapid influx of monocytes and neutrophils to the site of vaccination, with pronounced early priming of CysVac2-specific CD4+ T cells. As delta inulin adjuvants have shown an excellent safety and tolerability profile in humans, CysVac2/AdvaxCpG is a strong candidate for further preclinical evaluation for progression to human trials."},"28827286":{"title":"Anti-Cancer Drug HMBA Acts as an Adjuvant during Intracellular Bacterial Infections by Inducing Type I IFN through STING.","abstract":"The anti-proliferative agent hexamethylene bisacetamide (HMBA) belongs to a class of hybrid bipolar compounds developed more than 30 y ago for their ability to induce terminal differentiation of transformed cells. Recently, HMBA has also been shown to trigger HIV transcription from latently infected cells, via a CDK9/HMBA inducible protein-1 dependent process. However, the effect of HMBA on the immune response has not been explored. We observed that pretreatment of human peripheral blood mononuclear cells with HMBA led to a markedly increased production of IL-12 and IFN-γ, but not of TNF-α, IL-6, and IL-8 upon subsequent infection with Burkholderia pseudomallei and Salmonella enterica HMBA treatment was also associated with better intracellular bacterial control. HMBA significantly improved IL-12p70 production from CD14+ monocytes during infection partly via the induction of type I IFN in these cells, which primed an increased transcription of the p35 subunit of IL-12p70 during infection. HMBA also increased early type I IFN transcription in human monocytic and epithelial cell lines, but this was surprisingly independent of its previously reported effects on positive transcription elongation factor b and HMBA inducible protein-1. Instead, the effect of HMBA was downstream of a calcium influx, and required the pattern recognition receptor and adaptor STING but not cGAS. Our work therefore links the STING-IRF3 axis to enhanced IL-12 production and intracellular bacterial control in primary monocytes. This raises the possibility that HMBA or related small molecules may be explored as therapeutic adjuvants to improve disease outcomes during intracellular bacterial infections."},"2884428":{"title":"Diagnosing pneumococcal pneumonia.","abstract":""},"28868964":{"title":"Poly-ϵ-caprolactone/chitosan nanoparticles provide strong adjuvant effect for hepatitis B antigen.","abstract":"This work aims to investigate the adjuvant effect of poly-ϵ-caprolactone/chitosan nanoparticles (NPs) for hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) and the plasmid DNA encoding HBsAg (pRC/CMV-HBs). Both antigens were adsorbed onto preformed NPs. Vaccination studies were performed in C57BL/6 mice. Transfection efficiency was investigated in A549 cell line. HBsAg-adsorbed NPs generated strong anti-HBsAg IgG titers, mainly of IgG1 isotype, and induced antigen-specific IFN-γ and IL-17 secretion by spleen cells. The addition of pRC/CMV-HBs to the HBsAg-adsorbed NPs inhibited IL-17 secretion but had minor effect on IFN-γ levels. Lastly, pRC/CMV-HBs-loaded NPs generated a weak serum antibody response. Poly-ϵ-caprolactone/chitosan NPs provide a strong humoral adjuvant effect for HBsAg and induce a Th1/Th17-mediated cellular immune responses worth explore for hepatitis B virus vaccination."},"28933657":{"title":"A novel immunization approach for dengue infection based on conserved T cell epitopes formulated in calcium phosphate nanoparticles.","abstract":"Dengue virus (DV) is the etiologic agent of dengue fever, the most significant mosquito-borne viral disease in humans. Most DV vaccine approaches are focused on generating antibody mediated responses; one such DV vaccine is approved for use in humans but its efficacy is limited. While it is clear that T cell responses play important role in DV infection and subsequent disease manifestations, fewer studies are aimed at developing vaccines that induce robust T cells responses. Potent T cell based vaccines require 2 critical components: the identification of specific T cell stimulating MHC associated peptides, and an optimized vaccine delivery vehicle capable of simultaneously delivering the antigens and any required adjuvants. We have previously identified and characterized DV specific HLA-A2 and -A24 binding DV serotypes conserved epitopes, and the feasibility of an epitope based vaccine for DV infection. In this study, we build on those previous studies and describe an investigational DV vaccine using T cell epitopes incorporated into a calcium phosphate nanoparticle (CaPNP) delivery system. This study presents a comprehensive analysis of functional immunogenicity of DV CaPNP/multipeptide formulations in vitro and in vivo and demonstrates the CaPNP/multipeptide vaccine is capable of inducing T cell responses against all 4 serotypes of DV. This synthetic vaccine is also cost effective, straightforward to manufacture, and stable at room temperature in a lyophilized form. This formulation may serve as an effective candidate DV vaccine that protects against all 4 serotypes as either a prophylactic or therapeutic vaccine."},"28935204":{"title":"The Taishan Robinia pseudoacacia polysaccharides enhance immune effects of rabbit haemorrhagic disease virus inactivated vaccines.","abstract":"Robinia pseudoacacia flower, a common component in traditional Chinese medicine, has long been well-known for its high pharmaceutical value. This study aimed to assess the immunopotentiating effects of Taishan Robinia Pseudoacacia polysaccharides (TRPPS) in rabbits inoculated with a rabbit haemorrhagic disease virus (RHDV) inactivated vaccine. The rabbits were administered with the RHDV vaccine in conjunction with varying concentrations of TRPPS, and their blood samples were collected at different time points to analyze the ratio and number of blood lymphocytes. In addition, sera were prepared and analyzed to determine the overall antibody titer and the level of IL-2, a cytokine commonly used as an indicator of immune activity. The various TRPPS-supplemented vaccines were shown to be more effective in enhancing the immune functions of the inoculated rabbits compared to their polysaccharide-free counterpart, with 200 mg/mL of TRPPS exhibiting the most pronounced benefits that were comparable to those of propolis. In addition, the TRPPS-supplemented RHDV inactivated vaccines could significantly improve the survival rates of the immunized rabbits against RHDV infection. Our studies offered convincing experimental evidence for the development of TRPPS as a new type of plant-derived immunopotentiator."},"28939395":{"title":"Preformulation studies with the Escherichia coli double mutant heat-labile toxin adjuvant for use in an oral vaccine.","abstract":"Double mutant heat-labile toxin (dmLT) is a promising adjuvant for oral vaccine administration. The aims of our study were to develop sensitive methods to detect low concentrations of dmLT and to use the assays in preformulation studies to determine whether dmLT remains stable under conditions encountered by an oral vaccine. We developed a sandwich ELISA specific for intact dmLT and a sensitive SDS-PAGE densitometry method, and tested stability of dmLT in glass and plastic containers, in saliva, at the pH of stomach fluid, and in high-osmolarity buffers. The developed ELISA has a quantification range of 62.5 to 0.9ng/mL and lower limit of detection of 0.3ng/mL; the limit of quantification of the SDS-PAGE is 10μg/mL. This work demonstrates the application of dmLT assays in preformulation studies to development of an oral vaccine containing dmLT. Assays reported here will facilitate the understanding and use of dmLT as an adjuvant."},"28947345":{"title":"Safety and immunogenicity of a recombinant Plasmodium falciparum AMA1-DiCo malaria vaccine adjuvanted with GLA-SE or Alhydrogel® in European and African adults: A phase 1a/1b, randomized, double-blind multi-centre trial.","abstract":"Plasmodium falciparum Apical Membrane Antigen 1 Diversity Covering (PfAMA1-DiCo) candidate vaccine is a formulation of three recombinant variants of AMA1 designed to provide broader protection against parasites with varying AMA1 sequences. In this staggered phase Ia/Ib randomized, double blind trial, healthy French adults received AMA1-DiCo with either Alhydrogel® (n=15) or GLA-SE (n=15). Following a safety assessment in French volunteers, GLA-SE was chosen for the phase Ib trial where healthy Burkinabe adults received either AMA1-DiCo/GLA-SE (n=18) or placebo (n=18). AMA1-DiCo (50µg) was administered intramuscularly at baseline, Week 4 and 26. AMAI-DiCo was safe, well tolerated either with Alhydrogel® or GLA-SE. In European volunteers, the ratios of IgG increase from baseline were about 100 fold in Alhydrogel® group and 200-300 fold in GLA-SE group for the three antigens. In African volunteers, immunization resulted in IgG levels exceeding those observed for the European volunteers with a 4-fold increase. DiCo-specific IgG remained higher 26weeks after the third immunization than at baseline in both European and African volunteers. Induced antibodies were reactive against whole parasite derived from different strains. AMA1-DiCo vaccine was safe and immunogenic whatever the adjuvant although GLA-SE appeared more potent than Alhydrogel® at inducing IgG responses. ClinicalTrials.gov NCT02014727; PACTR201402000719423."},"28953265":{"title":"Microcrystalline Tyrosine (MCT®): A Depot Adjuvant in Licensed Allergy Immunotherapy Offers New Opportunities in Malaria.","abstract":"Microcrystalline Tyrosine (MCT®) is a widely used proprietary depot excipient in specific immunotherapy for allergy. In the current study we assessed the potential of MCT to serve as an adjuvant in the development of a vaccine against malaria. To this end, we formulated the circumsporozoite protein (CSP) of P. vivax in MCT and compared the induced immune responses to CSP formulated in PBS or Alum. Both MCT and Alum strongly increased immunogenicity of CSP compared to PBS in both C57BL/6 and BALB/c mice. Challenge studies in mice using a chimeric P. bergei expressing CSP of P. vivax demonstrated clinically improved symptoms of malaria with CSP formulated in both MCT and Alum; protection was, however, more pronounced if CSP was formulated in MCT. Hence, MCT may be an attractive biodegradable adjuvant useful for the development of novel prophylactic vaccines."},"29029260":{"title":"An Adjuvanted, Postfusion F Protein-Based Vaccine Did Not Prevent Respiratory Syncytial Virus Illness in Older Adults.","abstract":"Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) is an important cause of illness in older adults. This study assessed efficacy of a vaccine for prevention of RSV-associated acute respiratory illness (ARI), defined by specified symptoms with virologic confirmation. This phase 2b study evaluated RSV postfusion F protein (120 µg) with glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant (5 µg) in 2% stable emulsion. Subjects aged ≥60 years were randomly assigned at a ratio of 1:1 to receive vaccine or placebo (all received inactivated influenza vaccine). Ill subjects recorded symptoms and provided blood and nasal swab samples. In the per-protocol population (n = 1894), the incidence of RSV-associated ARI occurring ≥14 days after dosing was 1.7% and 1.6% in the vaccine and placebo groups, respectively, for a vaccine efficacy (VE) of -7.1% (90% confidence interval [CI], -106.9%-44.3%). Efficacy was not observed in secondary analyses that included seroresponse to nonvaccine RSV antigens (VE, 8.9%; 90% CI, -28.5%-35.4%) or symptoms combined with seroresponse (VE, 10.0%; 90% CI, -45.4%-44.4%). On day 29, 92.9% of vaccinees had an anti-F immunoglobulin G antibody seroresponse. Overall, 48.5% and 30.9% of RSV vaccine recipients reported local and systemic solicited symptoms, respectively. The RSV vaccine was immunogenic but did not protect older adults from RSV illness. NCT02508194."},"29112686":{"title":"Interferon regulatory factor 1 priming of tumour-derived exosomes enhances the antitumour immune response.","abstract":"Tumour-derived exosomes (TEXs) have a potential for application in cancer vaccines. Whether TEXs after induction by interferon regulatory factor 1 (IRF-1) are capable of enhancing the antitumour response remains to be determined. Exosomes released by tumour cells infected with IRF-1-expressing adenovirus (IRF-1-Exo) or treated with interferon-γ (IFN-Exo) were isolated via ultracentrifugation. The IRF-1 target proteins IL-15Rα and MHC class I (MHC-I) were analysed by western blot. Exosomes along with CpG adjuvant were injected into tumour models to assess the antitumour effects. Tumours were harvested for immunofluorescence staining. Splenocytes from tumour-bearing mice were co-cultured with tumour cells. The IFNγ-positive and granzyme B-positive CD8α+ splenocyte cells were quantified by flow cytometry. The IRF-1-Exo or IFN-Exo displayed increased IL-15Rα and MHC-I expression. Injection of IRF-1-Exo or IFN-Exo combined with CpG had improved antitumour effects in mice. This effect may be a result of increased infiltration of tumours by CD4+ and CD8α+ T cells. Antibody-mediated depletion of CD4+ or CD8+ T cells abrogated the antitumour effects. Splenocytes isolated from CpG+IRF-1-Exo-injected Hepa 1-6 tumour mice had increased IFNγ-positive and granzyme B-positive CD8+ cells after co-culturing with Hepa 1-6 cells as compared with MC38 cells. The IRF-1 priming of TEXs enhances antitumour immune response."},"29146379":{"title":"LT adjuvant modulates epitope specificity and improves the efficacy of murine antibodies elicited by sublingual vaccination with the N-terminal domain of Streptococcus mutans P1.","abstract":"In this study, we evaluated the immunogenicity, protective efficacy and peptide-based immune signatures of antibodies raised in mice after sublingual immunization with a recombinant form of the P1 (aka AgI/II, PAc) adhesin (P139-512) of Streptococcus mutans, a major etiological agent of dental caries. Sublingual administration of P139-512 in combination with the mucosal adjuvant LTK4R (a derivative of heat-labile LT toxin) induced strong and long-lasting systemic and mucosal immune responses. Incorporation of the adjuvant resulted in an enhancement of the anti-adhesive and anti-colonization activity against S. mutans as evaluated both under in vitro and in vivo conditions. Incorporation of the adjuvant to the vaccine formulation also changed the epitope specificity of the induced antibodies as determined by immunological signatures of sera collected from vaccinated mice. Use of a peptide microarray library led to the identification of peptide targets recognized by antibodies in serum samples with enhanced anti-adhesive effects. Altogether, the results presented herein showed that the sublingual administration of a P1-based subunit vaccine represents a promising approach for the prevention of dental caries caused by S. mutans. In addition, the present study disclosed the role of adjuvants on the epitope specificity and functionality of antibodies raised by subunit vaccines."},"29160080":{"title":"Adjuvant Activity of Poly-ε-caprolactone/Chitosan Nanoparticles Characterized by Mast Cell Activation and IFN-γ and IL-17 Production.","abstract":"Polymeric nanoparticles (NPs) are extremely attractive vaccine adjuvants, able to promote antigen delivery and in some instances, exert intrinsic immunostimulatory properties that enhance antigen specific humoral and cellular immune responses. The poly-ε-caprolactone (PCL)/chitosan NPs were designed with the aim of being able to combine the properties of the 2 polymers in the preparation of an adjuvant for the hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg). This article reports important results of an in vitro mechanistic study and immunization studies with HBsAg associated with different concentrations of the nanoparticles. The results revealed that PCL/chitosan NPs promoted mast cell (MC) activation (β-hexosaminidase release) and that its adjuvant effect is not mediated by the TNF-α secretion. Moreover, we demonstrated that HBsAg loaded PCL/chitosan NPs, administered through the subcutaneous (SC) route, were able to induce higher specific antibody titers without increasing IgE when compared to a commercial vaccine, and that the IgG titers are nanoparticle-dose dependent. The results also revealed the NPs' capability to promote a cellular immune response against HBsAg, characterized by the production of IFN-γ and IL-17. These results demonstrated that PCL/chitosan NPs are a good hepatitis B antigen adjuvant, with direct influence on the intensity and type of the immune response generated."},"29174316":{"title":"A phase II randomized study to determine the safety and immunogenicity of the novel PIKA rabies vaccine containing the PIKA adjuvant using an accelerated regimen.","abstract":"Human Rabies infection continues to be potentially fatal despite the availability of post-exposure prophylaxis with rabies vaccine. The PIKA Rabies vaccine adjuvant is a TLR3 agonist and has been shown to be safe and immunogenic in clinical phase I studies. We conducted a phase II, open label, randomized study in healthy adults to assess the safety and immunogenicity of the PIKA rabies vaccine under an accelerated regimen. 126 subjects were randomized into two groups: control vaccine classic regimen (\"control-classic\") and PIKA vaccine accelerated regimen (\"PIKA-accelerated\"). Subjects were followed up for safety and rabies virus neutralizing antibodies (RVNA). Both the control and PIKA vaccines were generally well tolerated. 57.6% of subjects in the PIKA vaccine group, compared with 43.8% of subjects in the control-classic group, achieved the target RVNA titer of ≥0.5 IU/mL by Day 7. All subjects achieved the target RVNA titer by Day 14. The RVNA geometric mean titer at Day 7 was 0.60 IU/ml in the PIKA vaccine group and 0.39 IU/ml in the control-classic group. At Day 14, the RVNA geometric mean titer was 18.25 IU/ml in the PIKA-accelerated group and 19.24 IU/ml in the control-classic group. The median time taken to reach the target RVNA titer level of ≥0.5 IU/mL was 7.0 days (95% CI: 7.0-42.0 days) in the PIKA-accelerated group and 14.0 days (95% CI: 7.0-42.0 days) in the control-classic group. The accelerated regimen using the investigational PIKA Rabies vaccine was well-tolerated and demonstrated non-inferior immunogenicity compared to the classic regimen using the commercially available vaccine in healthy adults. Clinical trial registry: The study was registered with clinicaltrials.gov (NCT02956421)."},"29176865":{"title":"Pre-clinical antigenicity studies of an innovative multivalent vaccine for human visceral leishmaniasis.","abstract":"The notion that previous infection by Leishmania spp. in endemic areas leads to robust anti-Leishmania immunity, supports vaccination as a potentially effective approach to prevent disease development. Nevertheless, to date there is no vaccine available for human leishmaniasis. We optimized and assessed in vivo the safety and immunogenicity of an innovative vaccine candidate against human visceral leishmaniasis (VL), consisting of Virus-Like Particles (VLP) loaded with three different recombinant proteins (LJL143 from Lutzomyia longipalpis saliva as the vector-derived (VD) component, and KMP11 and LeishF3+, as parasite-derived (PD) antigens) and adjuvanted with GLA-SE, a TLR4 agonist. No apparent adverse reactions were observed during the experimental time-frame, which together with the normal hematological parameters detected seems to point to the safety of the formulation. Furthermore, measurements of antigen-specific cellular and humoral responses, generally higher in immunized versus control groups, confirmed the immunogenicity of the vaccine formulation. Interestingly, the immune responses against the VD protein were reproducibly more robust than those elicited against leishmanial antigens, and were apparently not caused by immunodominance of the VD antigen. Remarkably, priming with the VD protein alone and boosting with the complete vaccine candidate contributed towards an increase of the immune responses to the PD antigens, assessed in the form of increased ex vivo CD4+ and CD8+ T cell proliferation against both the PD antigens and total Leishmania antigen (TLA). Overall, our immunogenicity data indicate that this innovative vaccine formulation represents a promising anti-Leishmania vaccine whose efficacy deserves to be tested in the context of the \"natural infection\"."},"29242218":{"title":"Draft Genome Sequence of Immunobiotic Lactobacillus rhamnosus Strain IBL027, a Potential Adjuvant for Mucosal Vaccine Development.","abstract":"The genome sequence of the immunomodulatory strain Lactobacillus rhamnosus strain IBL027 is described here. The reads were assembled into contigs with a total size 2,898,501 bp. The genome information will be useful for further specific genetic studies of this strain to evaluate its immunomodulatory and biotechnological properties as a vaccine adjuvant."},"29263879":{"title":"Protein nanovaccine confers robust immunity against Toxoplasma.","abstract":"We designed and produced a self-assembling protein nanoparticle. This self-assembling protein nanoparticle contains five CD8+ HLA-A03-11 supertypes-restricted epitopes from antigens expressed during Toxoplasma gondii's lifecycle, the universal CD4+ T cell epitope PADRE, and flagellin as a scaffold and TLR5 agonist. These CD8+ T cell epitopes were separated by N/KAAA spacers and optimized for proteasomal cleavage. Self-assembling protein nanoparticle adjuvanted with TLR4 ligand-emulsion GLA-SE were evaluated for their efficacy in inducing IFN-γ responses and protection of HLA-A*1101 transgenic mice against T. gondii. Immunization, using self-assembling protein nanoparticle-GLA-SE, activated CD8+ T cells to produce IFN-γ. Self-assembling protein nanoparticle-GLA-SE also protected HLA-A*1101 transgenic mice against subsequent challenge with Type II parasites. Hence, combining CD8+ T cell-eliciting peptides and PADRE into a multi-epitope protein that forms a nanoparticle, administered with GLA-SE, leads to efficient presentation by major histocompatibility complex Class I and II molecules. Furthermore, these results suggest that activation of TLR4 and TLR5 could be useful for development of vaccines that elicit T cells to prevent toxoplasmosis in humans."},"29263880":{"title":"Cellular and molecular synergy in AS01-adjuvanted vaccines results in an early IFNγ response promoting vaccine immunogenicity.","abstract":"Combining immunostimulants in adjuvants can improve the quality of the immune response to vaccines. Here, we report a unique mechanism of molecular and cellular synergy between a TLR4 ligand, 3-O-desacyl-4'-monophosphoryl lipid A (MPL), and a saponin, QS-21, the constituents of the Adjuvant System AS01. AS01 is part of the malaria and herpes zoster vaccine candidates that have demonstrated efficacy in phase III studies. Hours after injection of AS01-adjuvanted vaccine, resident cells, such as NK cells and CD8+ T cells, release IFNγ in the lymph node draining the injection site. This effect results from MPL and QS-21 synergy and is controlled by macrophages, IL-12 and IL-18. Depletion strategies showed that this early IFNγ production was essential for the activation of dendritic cells and the development of Th1 immunity by AS01-adjuvanted vaccine. A similar activation was observed in the lymph node of AS01-injected macaques as well as in the blood of individuals receiving the malaria RTS,S vaccine. This mechanism, previously described for infections, illustrates how adjuvants trigger naturally occurring pathways to improve the efficacy of vaccines."},"29349774":{"title":"The vaccine adjuvant alum promotes IL-10 production that suppresses Th1 responses.","abstract":"The effectiveness of many vaccines licensed for clinical use relates to the induction of neutralising antibodies, facilitated by the inclusion of vaccine adjuvants, particularly alum. However, the ability of alum to preferentially promote humoral rather than cellular, particularly Th1-type responses, is not well understood. We demonstrate that alum activates immunosuppressive mechanisms following vaccination, which limit its capacity to induce Th1 responses. One of the key cytokines limiting excessive immune responses is IL-10. Injection of alum primed draining lymph node cells for enhanced IL-10 secretion ex vivo. Moreover, at the site of injection, macrophages and dendritic cells were key sources of IL-10 expression. Alum strongly enhanced the transcription and secretion of IL-10 by macrophages and dendritic cells. The absence of IL-10 signalling did not compromise alum-induced cell infiltration into the site of injection, but resulted in enhanced antigen-specific Th1 responses after vaccination. In contrast to its decisive regulatory role in regulating Th1 responses, there was no significant change in antigen-specific IgG1 antibody production following vaccination with alum in IL-10-deficient mice. Overall, these findings indicate that injection of alum promotes IL-10, which can block Th1 responses and may explain the poor efficacy of alum as an adjuvant for inducing protective Th1 immunity."},"29358939":{"title":"Seasonal Influenza Split Vaccines Confer Partial Cross-Protection against Heterologous Influenza Virus in Ferrets When Combined with the CAF01 Adjuvant.","abstract":"Influenza epidemics occur annually, and estimated 5-10% of the adult population and 20-30% of children will become ill from influenza infection. Seasonal vaccines primarily work through the induction of neutralizing antibodies against the principal surface antigen hemagglutinin (HA). This important role of HA-specific antibodies explains why previous pandemics have emerged when new HAs have appeared in circulating human viruses. It has long been recognized that influenza virus-specific CD4(+) T cells are important in protection from infection through direct effector mechanisms or by providing help to B cells and CD8(+) T cells. However, the seasonal influenza vaccine is poor at inducing CD4(+) T-cell responses and needs to be combined with an adjuvant facilitating this response. In this study, we applied the ferret model to investigate the cross-protective efficacy of a heterologous trivalent influenza split-virion (TIV) vaccine adjuvanted with the CAF01 adjuvant, with proven ability to induce CD4(+) T-cell and antibody responses in mice, ferrets, pigs, primates, and humans. Our results indicate that CAF01-adjuvanted vaccine induces HA inhibition (HAI)-independent protection after heterologous challenge, manifested as reduced viral load and fever. On the other hand, we observe increased inflammation in the airways and more neutrophil and mononuclear cell infiltration in these ferrets when compared with optimally protected animals, i.e., ferrets receiving the same vaccine but a homologous challenge. This suggest that HAI-independent immunity induced by TIV + CAF01 can reduce viral shedding and systemic disease symptoms, but does not reduce local inflammation in the nasal cavity."},"29375970":{"title":"Turning the Old Adjuvant from Gel to Nanoparticles to Amplify CD8+ T Cell Responses.","abstract":"Due to its safety and efficacy, aluminum hydroxide is used as an immune adjuvant in human vaccines for over 80 years. Being a Th2 stimulator, the classical gel-like adjuvant, however, fails to generate CD8+ T cell responses, which are important for cancer vaccines. Here, aluminum hydroxide is turned from gel into nano-sized vaccine carriers AlO(OH)-polymer nanoparticles (APNs) to promote their lymphatic migration. After actively uptaken via scavenger receptor-A by antigen-presenting cells (APCs) resident in lymph nodes (LNs), APNs destabilize lysosomes resulting in efficient cytosolic delivery and cross-presentation of antigens. It is demonstrated that administration of APNs loaded with ovalbumin (OVA) and CpG led to the codelivery of both cargos into APCs in LNs, leading to their activation and subsequent adaptive immunity. A prime-boost strategy with low doses of OVA (1.5 µg) and CpG (0.45 µg) induces potent CD8+ T cell responses and dramatically prolongs the survival of B16-OVA tumor-bearing mice. More impressively, when using B16F10 lysates instead of OVA as antigen, substantial antitumor effects on B16F10 tumor model are observed by using APN-CpG. These results suggest the great potential of APNs as vaccine carriers that activate CD8+ T cell responses and the bright prospect of aluminum adjuvant in a nanoparticle formulation."},"29387473":{"title":"Humoral and cell-mediated immune responses to H5N1 plant-made virus-like particle vaccine are differentially impacted by alum and GLA-SE adjuvants in a Phase 2 clinical trial.","abstract":"The hemagglutinination inhibition (HI) response remains the gold standard used for the licensure of influenza vaccines. However, cell-mediated immunity (CMI) deserves more attention, especially when evaluating H5N1 influenza vaccines that tend to induce poor HI response. In this study, we measured the humoral response (HI) and CMI (flow cytometry) during a Phase II dose-ranging clinical trial (NCT01991561). Subjects received two intramuscular doses, 21 days apart, of plant-derived virus-like particles (VLP) presenting the A/Indonesia/05/2005 H5N1 influenza hemagglutinin protein (H5) at the surface of the VLP (H5VLP). The vaccine was co-administrated with Alhydrogel® or with a glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant-stable emulsion (GLA-SE). We demonstrated that low doses (3.75 or 7.5 μg H5VLP) of GLA-SE-adjuvanted vaccines induced HI responses that met criteria for licensure at both antigen doses tested. Alhydrogel adjuvanted vaccines induced readily detectable HI response that however failed to meet licensure criteria at any of three doses (10, 15 and 20 μg) tested. The H5VLP also induced a sustained (up to 6 months) polyfunctional and cross-reactive HA-specific CD4+ T cell response in all vaccinated groups. Interestingly, the frequency of central memory Th1-primed precursor cells before the boost significantly correlated with HI titers 21 days after the boost. The ability of the low dose GLA-SE-adjuvanted H5VLP to elicit both humoral response and a sustained cross-reactive CMI in healthy adults is very attractive and could result in significant dose-sparing in a pandemic situation."},"29431693":{"title":"An Antigen-Free, Plasmacytoid Dendritic Cell-Targeting Immunotherapy To Bolster Memory CD8+ T Cells in Nonhuman Primates.","abstract":"The priming, boosting, and restoration of memory cytotoxic CD8+ T lymphocytes by vaccination or immunotherapy in vivo is an area of active research. Particularly, nucleic acid-based compounds have attracted attention due to their ability to elicit strong Ag-specific CTL responses as a vaccine adjuvant. Nucleic acid-based compounds have been shown to act as anticancer monotherapeutic agents even without coadministration of cancer Ag(s); however, so far they have lacked efficacy in clinical trials. We recently developed a second-generation TLR9 agonist, a humanized CpG DNA (K3) complexed with schizophyllan (SPG), K3-SPG, a nonagonistic Dectin-1 ligand. K3-SPG was previously shown to act as a potent monoimmunotherapeutic agent against established tumors in mice in vivo. In this study we extend the monoimmunotherapeutic potential of K3-SPG to a nonhuman primate model. K3-SPG activated monkey plasmacytoid dendritic cells to produce both IFN-α and IL-12/23 p40 in vitro and in vivo. A single injection s.c. or i.v. with K3-SPG significantly increased the frequencies of activated memory CD8+ T cells in circulation, including Ag-specific memory CTLs, in cynomolgus macaques. This increase did not occur in macaques injected with free CpG K3 or polyinosinic-polycytidylic acid. Injection of 2 mg K3-SPG induced mild systemic inflammation, however, levels of proinflammatory serum cytokines and circulating neutrophil influx were lower than those induced by the same dose of polyinosinic-polycytidylic acid. Therefore, even in the absence of specific Ags, we show that K3-SPG has potent Ag-specific memory CTL response-boosting capabilities, highlighting its potential as a monoimmunotherapeutic agent for chronic infectious diseases and cancer."},"29432824":{"title":"Immune response to antigen adsorbed to aluminum hydroxide particles: Effects of co-adsorption of ALF or ALFQ adjuvant to the aluminum-antigen complex.","abstract":"Aluminum salts have been used as vaccine adjuvants for >50 years, and they are currently present in at least 146 licensed vaccines worldwide. In this study we examined whether adsorption of Army Liposome Formulation (ALF) to an aluminum salt that already has an antigen adsorbed to it might result in improved immune potency of the aluminum-adsorbed antigen. ALF is composed of a family of anionic liposome-based adjuvants, in which the liposomes contain synthetic phospholipids having dimyristoyl fatty acyl groups, cholesterol and monophosphoryl lipid A (MPLA). For certain candidate vaccines, ALF has been added to aluminum hydroxide (AH) gel as a second adjuvant to form ALFA. Here we show that different methods of preparation of ALF changed the physical structures of both ALF and ALFA. Liposomes containing the saponin QS21 (ALFQ) have also been mixed with AH to form ALFQA as an effective combination. In this study, we first adsorbed one of two different antigens to AH, either tetanus toxoid conjugated to 34 copies of a hapten (MorHap), which has been used in a candidate heroin vaccine, or gp140 protein derived from the envelope protein of HIV-1. We then co-adsorbed ALF or ALFQ to the AH to form ALFA or ALFQA. In each case, the immune potency of the antigen adsorbed to AH was greatly increased by co-adsorbing either ALF or ALFQ to the AH. Based on IgG subtype and cytokine analysis by ELISPOT, ALFA induced predominately a Th2-type response and ALFQ and ALFQA each induced more balanced Th1/Th2 responses."},"29467764":{"title":"Propionibacterium acnes Enhances the Immunogenicity of HIVBr18 Human Immunodeficiency Virus-1 Vaccine.","abstract":"Immunization of BALB/c mice with HIVBr18, a DNA vaccine containing 18 CD4+ T cell epitopes from human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), induced specific CD4+ and CD8+ T cell responses in a broad, polyfunctional and persistent manner. With the aim of increasing the immunogenicity of this vaccine, the effect of Propionibacterium acnes as an adjuvant was evaluated. The adjuvant effects of this bacterium have been extensively demonstrated in both experimental and clinical settings. Herein, administration of two doses of HIVBr18, in the presence of P. acnes, increased the proliferation of HIV-1-specific CD4+ and CD8+ T lymphocytes, the polyfunctional profile of CD4+ T cells, the production of IFN-γ, and the number of recognized vaccine-encoded peptides. One of the bacterial components responsible for most of the adjuvant effects observed was a soluble polysaccharide extracted from the P. acnes cell wall. Furthermore, within 10 weeks after immunization, the proliferation of specific T cells and production of IFN-γ were maintained when the whole bacterium was administered, demonstrating a greater effect on the longevity of the immune response by P. acnes. Even with fewer immunization doses, P. acnes was found to be a potent adjuvant capable of potentiating the effects of the HIVBr18 vaccine. Therefore, P. acnes may be a potential adjuvant to aid this vaccine in inducing immunity or for therapeutic use."},"29515589":{"title":"Improved Immune Responses in Young and Aged Mice with Adjuvanted Vaccines against H1N1 Influenza Infection.","abstract":"Elderly people are at high risk for influenza-related morbidity and mortality due to progressive immunosenescence. While toll-like receptor (TLR) agonist containing adjuvants, and other adjuvants, have been shown to enhance influenza vaccine-induced protective responses, the mechanisms underlying how these adjuvanted vaccines could benefit the elderly remain elusive. Here, we show that a split H1N1 influenza vaccine (sH1N1) combined with a TLR4 agonist, glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant formulated in a stable oil-in-water emulsion (GLA-SE), boosts IgG2c:IgG1 ratios, enhances hemagglutination inhibition (HAI) titers, and increases protection in aged mice. We find that all adjuvanted sH1N1 vaccines tested were able to protect both young and aged mice from lethal A/H1N1/California/4/2009 virus challenge after two immunizations compared to vaccine alone. We show that GLA-SE combined with sH1N1, however, also provides enhanced protection from morbidity in aged mice given one immunization (based on change in weight percentage). While the GLA-SE-adjuvanted sH1N1 vaccine promotes the generation of cytokine-producing T helper 1 cells, germinal center B cells, and long-lived bone marrow plasma cells in young mice, these responses were muted in aged mice. Differential in vitro responses, dependent on age, were also observed from mouse-derived bone marrow-derived dendritic cells and lung homogenates following stimulation with adjuvants, including GLA-SE. Besides enhanced HAI titers, additional protective factors elicited with sH1N1 + GLA-SE in young mice were observed, including (a) rapid reduction of viral titers in the lung, (b) prevention of excessive lung inflammation, and (c) homeostatic maintenance of alveolar macrophages (AMs) following H1N1 infection. Collectively, our results provide insight into mechanisms of adjuvant-mediated immune protection in the young and elderly."},"29541075":{"title":"Overcoming the Neonatal Limitations of Inducing Germinal Centers through Liposome-Based Adjuvants Including C-Type Lectin Agonists Trehalose Dibehenate or Curdlan.","abstract":"Neonates and infants are more vulnerable to infections and show reduced responses to vaccination. Consequently, repeated immunizations are required to induce protection and early life vaccines against major pathogens such as influenza are yet unavailable. Formulating antigens with potent adjuvants, including immunostimulators and delivery systems, is a demonstrated approach to enhance vaccine efficacy. Yet, adjuvants effective in adults may not meet the specific requirements for activating the early life immune system. Here, we assessed the neonatal adjuvanticity of three novel adjuvants including TLR4 (glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant-squalene emulsion), TLR9 (IC31®), and Mincle (CAF01) agonists, which all induce germinal centers (GCs) and potent antibody responses to influenza hemagglutinin (HA) in adult mice. In neonates, a single dose of HA formulated into each adjuvant induced T follicular helper (TFH) cells. However, only HA/CAF01 elicited significantly higher and sustained antibody responses, engaging neonatal B cells to differentiate into GCs already after a single dose. Although antibody titers remained lower than in adults, HA-specific responses induced by a single neonatal dose of HA/CAF01 were sufficient to confer protection against influenza viral challenge. Postulating that the neonatal adjuvanticity of CAF01 may result from the functionality of the C-type lectin receptor (CLR) Mincle in early life we asked whether other C-type lectin agonists would show a similar neonatal adjuvanticity. Replacing the Mincle agonist trehalose 6,6'-dibehenate by Curdlan, which binds to Dectin-1, enhanced antibody responses through the induction of similar levels of TFH, GCs and bone marrow high-affinity plasma cells. Thus, specific requirements of early life B cells may already be met after a single vaccine dose using CLR-activating agonists, identified here as promising B cell immunostimulators for early life vaccines when included into cationic liposomes."},"29570298":{"title":"Iron Oxide Nanoparticles-Based Vaccine Delivery for Cancer Treatment.","abstract":"Modern therapeutic cancer vaccines need simple and effective formulations to enhance both humoral and cellular immune responses. Nanoparticles have obtained more and more attention in the development of vaccine delivery platforms. Moreover, nanoparticles-based vaccine delivery platform has high potential for improving the immunogenicity of vaccine. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has approved many types of iron oxide nanoparticles for clinical use, such as treating iron deficiency, contrast agents for magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and drug delivery platforms. In this study, we explored a novel combined use of iron oxide nanoparticles (superparamagnetic Fe3O4 nanoparticles) as a vaccine delivery platform and immune potentiator, and investigated how this formulation affected cytokine expression in macrophages and dendritic cells (DCs) in vitro and tumor growth in vivo. Comparing with soluble OVA alone and iron oxide nanoparticles alone, we found significant differences in immune responses and tumor inhibition induced by OVA formulated with iron oxide nanoparticles. Our iron oxide nanoparticles greatly promoted the activation of immune cells and cytokine production, inducing potent humoral and cellular immune responses. These results suggest that this nanoparticle-based delivery system has strong potential to be utilized as a general platform for cancer vaccines."},"29592962":{"title":"Microcrystalline Tyrosine and Aluminum as Adjuvants in Allergen-Specific Immunotherapy Protect from IgE-Mediated Reactivity in Mouse Models and Act Independently of Inflammasome and TLR Signaling.","abstract":"Allergen immunotherapy (AIT) is the only modality that can modify immune responses to allergen exposure, but therapeutic coverage is low. One strategy to improve AIT safety and efficacy is the use of new or improved adjuvants. This study investigates immune responses produced by microcrystalline tyrosine (MCT)-based vaccines as compared with conventional aluminum hydroxide (alum). Wild-type, immune-signaling-deficient, and TCR-transgenic mice were treated with different Ags (e.g., OVA and cat dander Fel d 1), plus MCT or alum as depot adjuvants. Specific Ab responses in serum were measured by ELISA, whereas cytokine secretion was measured both in culture supernatants by ELISA or by flow cytometry of spleen cells. Upon initiation of AIT in allergic mice, body temperature and further clinical signs were used as indicators for anaphylaxis. Overall, MCT and alum induced comparable B and T cell responses, which were independent of TLR signaling. Alum induced stronger IgE and IL-4 secretion than MCT. MCT and alum induced caspase-dependent IL-1β secretion in human monocytes in vitro, but inflammasome activation had no functional effect on inflammatory and Ab responses measured in vivo. In sensitized mice, AIT with MCT-adjuvanted allergens caused fewer anaphylactic reactions compared with alum-adjuvanted allergens. As depot adjuvants, MCT and alum are comparably effective in strength and mechanism of Ag-specific IgG induction and induction of T cell responses. The biocompatible and biodegradable MCT seems therefore a suitable alternative adjuvant to alum-based vaccines and AIT."},"29595510":{"title":"Safety and immunogenicity of the novel tuberculosis vaccine ID93 + GLA-SE in BCG-vaccinated healthy adults in South Africa: a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled phase 1 trial.","abstract":"A vaccine that prevents pulmonary tuberculosis in adults is needed to halt transmission in endemic regions. This trial aimed to assess the safety and immunogenicity of three administrations at varying doses of antigen and adjuvant of an investigational vaccine (ID93 + GLA-SE) compared with placebo in previously BCG-vaccinated healthy adults in a tuberculosis endemic country. In this randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled phase 1 trial, we enrolled HIV-negative, previously BCG-vaccinated adults (aged 18-50 years), with no evidence of previous or current tuberculosis disease, from among community volunteers in the Worcester region of Western Cape, South Africa. Participants were randomly assigned to receive varying doses of ID93 + GLA-SE or saline placebo at day 0, day 28, and day 112. Enrolment into each cohort was sequential. Cohort 1 participants were Mycobacterium tuberculosis uninfected (as defined by negative QuantiFERON [QFT] status), and received 10 μg ID93 plus 2 μg GLA-SE, or placebo; in cohorts 2-4, QFT-negative or positive participants received escalating doses of vaccine or placebo. Cohort 2 received 2 μg ID93 plus 2 μg GLA-SE; cohort 3 received 10 μg ID93 plus 2 μg GLA-SE; and cohort 4 received 10 μg ID93 plus 5 μg GLA-SE. Dose cohort allocation was sequential; randomisation within a cohort was according to a randomly-generated sequence (3 to 1 in cohort 1, 5 to 1 in cohorts 2-4). The primary endpoint was safety of ID93 + GLA-SE as defined by solicited and unsolicited adverse events up to 28 days after each study injection and serious adverse events for the duration of the study. Specific immune responses were measured by intracellular cytokine staining, flow cytometry, and ELISA. All analyses were done according to intention to treat, with additional per-protocol analyses for immunogenicity outcomes. This trial is registered with ClinicalTrials.gov, number NCT01927159. Between Aug 30, 2013, and Sept 4, 2014, 227 individuals consented to participate; 213 were screened (three participants were not included as study number was already met and 11 withdrew consent before screening occurred, mostly due to relocation or demands of employment). 66 healthy, HIV-negative adults were randomly allocated to receive the vaccine (n=54) or placebo (n=12). All study participants received day 0 and day 28 study injections; five participants did not receive an injection on day 112. ID93 + GLA-SE was well tolerated; no severe or serious vaccine-related adverse events were recorded. Vaccine dose did not affect frequency or severity of adverse events, but mild injection site adverse events and flu-like symptoms were common in M tuberculosis-infected participants compared with uninfected participants. Vaccination induced durable antigen-specific IgG and Th1 cellular responses, which peaked after two administrations. Vaccine dose did not affect magnitude, kinetics, or profile of antibody and cellular responses. Earlier boosting and greater T-cell differentiation and effector-like profiles were seen in M tuberculosis-infected than in uninfected vaccinees. Escalating doses of ID93 + GLA-SE induced similar antigen-specific CD4-positive T cell and humoral responses, with an acceptable safety profile in BCG-immunised, M tuberculosis-infected individuals. The T-cell differentiation profiles in M tuberculosis-infected vaccinees suggest priming through natural infection. While cohort sample sizes in this phase 1 trial were small and results should be interpreted in context, these data support efficacy testing of two administrations of the lowest (2 μg) ID93 vaccine dose in tuberculosis endemic populations. Aeras and the Paul G Allen Family Foundation."},"29619252":{"title":"LepVax, a defined subunit vaccine that provides effective pre-exposure and post-exposure prophylaxis of M. leprae infection.","abstract":"Sustained elimination of leprosy as a global health concern likely requires a vaccine. The current standard, BCG, confers only partial protection and precipitates paucibacillary (PB) disease in some instances. When injected into mice with the T helper 1 (Th1)-biasing adjuvant formulation Glucopyranosyl Lipid Adjuvant in stable emulsion (GLA-SE), a cocktail of three prioritized antigens (ML2055, ML2380 and ML2028) reduced M. leprae infection levels. Recognition and protective efficacy of a single chimeric fusion protein incorporating these antigens, LEP-F1, was confirmed in similar experiments. The impact of post-exposure immunization was then assessed in nine-banded armadillos that demonstrate a functional recapitulation of leprosy. Armadillos were infected with M. leprae 1 month before the initiation of post-exposure prophylaxis. While BCG precipitated motor nerve conduction abnormalities more rapidly and severely than observed for control infected armadillos, motor nerve injury in armadillos treated three times, at monthly intervals with LepVax was appreciably delayed. Biopsy of cutaneous nerves indicated that epidermal nerve fiber density was not significantly altered in M. leprae-infected animals although Remak Schwann cells of the cutaneous nerves in the distal leg were denser in the infected armadillos. Importantly, LepVax immunization did not exacerbate cutaneous nerve involvement due to M. leprae infection, indicating its safe use. There was no intraneural inflammation but a reduction of intra axonal edema suggested that LepVax treatment might restore some early sensory axonal function. These data indicate that post-exposure prophylaxis with LepVax not only appears safe but, unlike BCG, alleviates and delays the neurologic disruptions caused by M. leprae infection."},"29699790":{"title":"Immunological and physical evaluation of the multistage tuberculosis subunit vaccine candidate H56/CAF01 formulated as a spray-dried powder.","abstract":"Liquid vaccine dosage forms have limited stability and require refrigeration during their manufacture, distribution and storage. In contrast, solid vaccine dosage forms, produced by for example spray drying, offer improved storage stability and reduced dependence on cold-chain facilities. This is advantageous for mass immunization campaigns for global public health threats, e.g., tuberculosis (TB), and offers cheaper vaccine distribution. The multistage subunit vaccine antigen H56, which is a fusion protein of the Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) antigens Ag85B, ESAT-6, and Rv2660, has been shown to confer protective efficacy against active TB before and after Mtb exposure in preclinical models, and it is currently undergoing clinical phase 2a testing. In several studies, including a recent study comparing multiple clinically relevant vaccine adjuvants, the T helper type 1 (Th1)/Th17-inducing adjuvant CAF01 was the most efficacious adjuvant for H56 to stimulate protective immunity against Mtb. With the long-term goal of designing a thermostable and self-administrable dry powder vaccine based on H56 and CAF01 for inhalation, we compared H56 spray-dried with CAF01 with the non-spray-dried H56/CAF01 vaccine with respect to their ability to induce systemic Th1, Th17 and humoral responses after subcutaneous immunization. Here we show that spray drying of the H56/CAF01 vaccine results in preserved antigenic epitope recognition and adjuvant activity of CAF01, and the spray-dried, reconstituted vaccine induces antigen-specific Th1, Th17 and humoral immune responses, which are comparable to those stimulated by the non-spray-dried H56/CAF01 vaccine. In addition, the spray-dried and reconstituted H56/CAF01 vaccine promotes similar polyfunctional CD4+ T-cell responses as the non-spray-dried vaccine. Thus, our study provides proof-of-concept that spray drying of the subunit vaccine H56/CAF01 preserves vaccine-induced humoral and cell-mediated immune responses. These results support our ongoing efforts to develop a thermostable, dry powder-based TB vaccine."},"29720976":{"title":"Carbonate Apatite Nanoparticles Act as Potent Vaccine Adjuvant Delivery Vehicles by Enhancing Cytokine Production Induced by Encapsulated Cytosine-Phosphate-Guanine Oligodeoxynucleotides.","abstract":"Vaccine adjuvants that can induce not only antigen-specific antibody responses but also Th1-type immune responses and CD8+ cytotoxic T lymphocyte responses are needed for the development of vaccines against infectious diseases and cancer. Of many available adjuvants, oligodeoxynucleotides (ODNs) with unmethylated cytosine-phosphate-guanine (CpG) motifs are the most promising for inducing the necessary immune responses, and these adjuvants are currently under clinical trials in humans. However, the development of novel delivery vehicles that enhance the adjuvant effects of CpG ODNs, subsequently increasing the production of cytokines such as type-I interferons (IFNs), is highly desirable. In this study, we demonstrate the potential of pH-responsive biodegradable carbonate apatite (CA) nanoparticles as CpG ODN delivery vehicles that can enhance the production of type-I IFNs (such as IFN-α) relative to that induced by CpG ODNs and can augment the adjuvant effects of CpG ODNs in vivo. In contrast to CpG ODNs, CA nanoparticles containing CpG ODNs (designated CA-CpG) induced significant IFN-α production by mouse dendritic cells and human peripheral blood mononuclear cells in vitro; and production of interleukin-12, and IFN-γ was higher in CA-CpG-treated groups than in CpG ODNs groups. In addition, treatment with CA-CpG resulted in higher cytokine production in draining lymph nodes than did treatment with CpG ODNs in vivo. Furthermore, vaccination with CA-CpG plus an antigen, such as ovalbumin or influenza virus hemagglutinin, resulted in higher antigen-specific antibody responses and CD8+ cytotoxic T lymphocyte responses in vivo, in an interleukin-12- and type-I IFN-dependent manner, than did vaccination with the antigen plus CpG ODNs; in addition, the efficacy of the vaccine against influenza virus was higher with CA-CpG as the adjuvant than with CpG ODNs as the adjuvant. These data show the potential of CA nanoparticles to serve as CpG ODN delivery vehicles that increase the production of cytokines, especially IFN-α, induced by CpG ODNs and thus augment the efficacy of CpG ODNs as adjuvants. We expect that the strategy reported herein will facilitate the design and development of novel adjuvant delivery vehicles for vaccines."},"29729492":{"title":"Naltrexone; as an efficient adjuvant in induction of Th1 immunity and protection against Fasciola hepatica infection.","abstract":"Toxic effects of available therapeutics are major drawbacks for conventional management approaches in parasitic infections. Vaccines have provided a promising opportunity to obviate such unwanted complications. In present study, we examined immune augmenting capacities of an emerging adjuvant, Naltrexone, against Fasciola hepatica infection in BALB/c mice. Seventy BALB/c mice were divided into five experimental groups (14 mice per group) including 1- control (received PBS), 2- vaccine (immunized with F. hepatica E/S antigens), 3- Alum-vaccine (immunized with Alum adjuvant and E/S antigens), 4- NLT-vaccine (immunized with NLT adjuvant and E/S antigens), and 5- Alum-NLT-vaccine (immunized with mixed Alum-NLT adjuvant and E/S antigens). Lymphocyte stimulation index was assessed by MTT assay. Production of IFN-γ, IL-4, IgG2a and IgG1 was assessed by ELISA method. Results showed that NLT, either alone or in combination with alum, can induce immune response toward production of IFN-γ and IgG2a as representatives of Th1 immune response. Also, using this adjuvant in immunization experiment was associated with significantly high proliferative response of splenocytes/lymphocytes. Utilization of mixed Alum-NLT adjuvant revealed the highest protection rate (73.8%) in challenge test of mice infected with F. hepatica. These findings suggest the potential role of NLT as an effective adjuvant in induction of protective cellular and Th1 immune responses against fasciolosis."},"29751735":{"title":"Identification of Compounds That Prolong Type I Interferon Signaling as Potential Vaccine Adjuvants.","abstract":"Vaccines are reliant on adjuvants to enhance the immune stimulus, and type I interferons (IFNs) have been shown to be beneficial in augmenting this response. We were interested in identifying compounds that would sustain activation of an endogenous type I IFN response as a co-adjuvant. We began with generation of a human monocytic THP-1 cell line with an IFN-stimulated response element (ISRE)-β-lactamase reporter construct for high-throughput screening. Pilot studies were performed to optimize the parameters and conditions for this cell-based Förster resonance energy transfer (FRET) reporter assay for sustaining an IFN-α-induced ISRE activation signal. These conditions were confirmed in an initial pilot screen, followed by the main screen for evaluating prolongation of an IFN-α-induced ISRE activation signal at 16 h. Hit compounds were identified using a structure enrichment strategy based on chemoinformatic clustering and a naïve \"Top X\" approach. A select list of confirmed hits was then evaluated for toxicity and the ability to sustain IFN activity by gene and protein expression. Finally, for proof of concept, a panel of compounds was used to immunize mice as co-adjuvant with a model antigen and an IFN-inducing Toll-like receptor 4 agonist, lipopolysaccharide, as an adjuvant. Selected compounds significantly augmented antigen-specific immunoglobulin responses."},"29760705":{"title":"Induction of Cytotoxic T-Lymphocyte Responses Upon Subcutaneous Administration of a Subunit Vaccine Adjuvanted With an Emulsion Containing the Toll-Like Receptor 3 Ligand Poly(I:C).","abstract":"There is an unmet medical need for new subunit vaccines that induce cytotoxic T-lymphocyte (CTL) responses to prevent infection with a number of pathogens. However, stimulation of CTL responses via clinically acceptable subcutaneous (s.c.) and intramuscular (i.m.) injection is challenging. Recently, we designed a liposomal adjuvant [cationic adjuvant formulation (CAF)09] composed of the cationic lipid dimethyldioctadecylammonium (DDA) bromide, a synthetic monomycoloyl glycerol analog and polyinosinic:polycytidylic acid, which induce strong CTL responses to peptide and protein antigens after intraperitoneal administration. By contrast, CAF09 does not stimulate CTL responses upon s.c. or i.m. injection because the vaccine forms a depot that remains at the injection site. Hence, we engineered a series of nanoemulsions (CAF24a-c) based on the active components of CAF09. The oil phase consisted of biodegradable squalane, and the surface charge was varied systematically by replacing DDA with zwitterionic distearoylphosphoethanolamine. We hypothesized that the nanoemulsions drain to the lymph nodes to a larger extent than CAF09, upon s.c. co-administration with the model antigen chicken egg ovalbumin (OVA). This results in an increased dose fraction that reaches the draining lymph nodes (dLNs) and subsequently activates cross-presenting dendritic cells (DCs), which can prime CTL responses. Indeed, the nanoemulsions induced antigen-specific CD8+ T-cell responses, which were significantly higher than those stimulated by OVA adjuvanted with CAF09. We explain this by the observed rapid localization of CAF24a in the dLNs and the subsequent association with conventional DCs, which promotes induction of CTL responses. Uptake of CAF24a was not specific for DCs, because CAF24a was also detected with B cells and macrophages. No measurable dose fraction of CAF09 was detected in the dLNs within the study period, and CAF09 formed a depot at the site of injection. Importantly, s.c. vaccination with OVA adjuvanted with CAF24a induced significant levels of specific lysis of antigen-pulsed splenocytes were induced after, which was not observed for OVA adjuvanted with CAF09. Thus, CAF24a is a promising adjuvant for induction of CTL responses upon s.c. and i.m. immunization, and it offers interesting perspectives for the design of vaccines against pathogens for which CTL responses are required to prevent infection."},"29764680":{"title":"The parasite-derived rOv-ASP-1 is an effective antigen-sparing CD4+ T cell-dependent adjuvant for the trivalent inactivated influenza vaccine, and functions in the absence of MyD88 pathway.","abstract":"Vaccination remains the most cost-effective biomedical approach for controlling influenza disease. In times of pandemics, however, these vaccines cannot be produced in sufficient quantities for worldwide use by the current manufacturing capacities and practices. What is needed is the development of adjuvanted vaccines capable of inducing an adequate or better immune response at a decreased antigen dose. Previously we showed that the protein adjuvant rOv-ASP-1 augments influenza-specific antibody titers and survival after virus challenge in both young adult and old-age mice when administered with the trivalent inactivated influenza vaccine (IIV3). In this study we show that a reduced amount of rOv-ASP-1, with 40-times less IIV3 can also induce protection. Apparently the potency of the rOv-ASP-1 adjuvanted IIV3 vaccine is independent of the IIV3-specific Th1/Th2 associated antibody responses, and independent of the presence of HAI antibodies. However, CD4+ T helper cells were indispensable for the protection. Further, rOv-ASP-1 with or without IIV3 elicited the increased level of various chemokines, which are known chemoattractant for immune cells, into the muscle 4 h after immunization, and significantly induced the recruitment of monocytes, macrophages and neutrophils into the muscles. The recruited monocytes had higher expression of the activation marker MHCII on their surface as well as CXCR3 and CCR2; receptors for IP-10 and MCP-1, respectively. These results show that the rOv-ASP-1 adjuvant allows substantial antigen sparing of IIV3 by stimulating at the site of injection the accumulation of chemokines and the recruitment of immune cells that can augment the activation of CD4+ T cell immune responses, essential for the production of antibody responses. Protection elicited by the rOv-ASP-1 adjuvanted IIV3 vaccine also appears to function in the absence of MyD88-signaling. Future studies will attempt to delineate the precise mechanisms by which the rOv-ASP-1 adjuvanted IIV3 vaccine works."},"29769270":{"title":"Effective Combination Adjuvants Engage Both TLR and Inflammasome Pathways To Promote Potent Adaptive Immune Responses.","abstract":"The involvement of innate receptors that recognize pathogen- and danger-associated molecular patterns is critical to programming an effective adaptive immune response to vaccination. The synthetic TLR4 agonist glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant (GLA) synergizes with the squalene oil-in-water emulsion (SE) formulation to induce strong adaptive responses. Although TLR4 signaling through MyD88 and TIR domain-containing adapter inducing IFN-β are essential for GLA-SE activity, the mechanisms underlying the synergistic activity of GLA and SE are not fully understood. In this article, we demonstrate that the inflammasome activation and the subsequent release of IL-1β are central effectors of the action of GLA-SE, as infiltration of innate cells into the draining lymph nodes and production of IFN-γ are reduced in ASC-/- animals. Importantly, the early proliferation of Ag-specific CD4+ T cells was completely ablated after immunization in ASC-/- animals. Moreover, numbers of Ag-specific CD4+ T and B cells as well as production of IFN-γ, TNF-α, and IL-2 and Ab titers were considerably reduced in ASC-/-, NLRP3-/-, and IL-1R-/- mice compared with wild-type mice and were completely ablated in TLR4-/- animals. Also, extracellular ATP, a known trigger of the inflammasome, augments Ag-specific CD4+ T cell responses, as hydrolyzing it with apyrase diminished adaptive responses induced by GLA-SE. These data thus demonstrate that GLA-SE adjuvanticity acts through TLR4 signaling and NLRP3 inflammasome activation to promote robust Th1 and B cell responses to vaccine Ags. The findings suggest that engagement of both TLR and inflammasome activators may be a general paradigm for induction of robust CD4 T cell immunity with combination adjuvants such as GLA-SE."},"29769448":{"title":"TLR-adjuvanted nanoparticle vaccines differentially influence the quality and longevity of responses to malaria antigen Pfs25.","abstract":"Transmission-blocking vaccines (TBVs) are considered an integral element of malaria eradication efforts. Despite promising evaluations of Plasmodium falciparum Pfs25-based TBVs in mice, clinical trials have failed to induce robust and long-lived Ab titers, in part due to the poorly immunogenic nature of Pfs25. Using nonhuman primates, we demonstrate that multiple aspects of Pfs25 immunity were enhanced by antigen encapsulation in poly(lactic-co-glycolic acid)-based [(PLGA)-based] synthetic vaccine particles (SVP[Pfs25]) and potent TLR-based adjuvants. SVP[Pfs25] increased Ab titers, Pfs25-specific plasmablasts, circulating memory B cells, and plasma cells in the bone marrow when benchmarked against the clinically tested multimeric form Pfs25-EPA given with GLA-LSQ. SVP[Pfs25] also induced the first reported Pfs25-specific circulating Th1 and Tfh cells to our knowledge. Multivariate correlative analysis indicated several mechanisms for the improved Ab responses. While Pfs25-specific B cells were responsible for increasing Ab titers, T cell responses stimulated increased Ab avidity. The innate immune activation differentially stimulated by the adjuvants revealed a strong correlation between type I IFN polarization, induced by R848 and CpG, and increased Ab half-life and longevity. Collectively, the data identify ways to improve vaccine-induced immunity to poorly immunogenic proteins, both by the choice of antigen and adjuvant formulation, and highlight underlying immunological mechanisms."},"29771487":{"title":"Cancer Cell Membrane-Coated Adjuvant Nanoparticles with Mannose Modification for Effective Anticancer Vaccination.","abstract":"Tumor vaccines for cancer prevention and treatment have attracted tremendous interests in the area of cancer immunotherapy in recent years. In this work, we present a strategy to construct cancer vaccines by encapsulating immune-adjuvant nanoparticles with cancer cell membranes modified by mannose. Poly(d,l-lactide- co-glycolide) nanoparticles are first loaded with toll-like receptor 7 agonist, imiquimod (R837). Those adjuvant nanoparticles (NP-R) are then coated with cancer cell membranes (NP-R@M), whose surface proteins could act as tumor-specific antigens. With further modification with mannose moiety (NP-R@M-M), the obtained nanovaccine shows enhanced uptake by antigen presenting cells such as dendritic cells, which would then be stimulated to the maturation status to trigger antitumor immune responses. With great efficacy to delay tumor development as a prevention vaccine, vaccination with such NP-R@M-M in combination with checkpoint-blockade therapy further demonstrates outstanding therapeutic efficacy to treat established tumors. Therefore, our work presents an innovative way to fabricate cancer nanovaccines, which in principle may be applied for a wide range of tumor types."},"29771685":{"title":"Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli-blood group A interactions intensify diarrheal severity.","abstract":"Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli (ETEC) infections are highly prevalent in developing countries, where clinical presentations range from asymptomatic colonization to severe cholera-like illness. The molecular basis for these varied presentations, which may involve strain-specific virulence features as well as host factors, has not been elucidated. We demonstrate that, when challenged with ETEC strain H10407, originally isolated from a case of cholera-like illness, blood group A human volunteers developed severe diarrhea more frequently than individuals from other blood groups. Interestingly, a diverse population of ETEC strains, including H10407, secrete the EtpA adhesin molecule. As many bacterial adhesins also agglutinate red blood cells, we combined the use of glycan arrays, biolayer inferometry, and noncanonical amino acid labeling with hemagglutination studies to demonstrate that EtpA is a dominant ETEC blood group A-specific lectin/hemagglutinin. Importantly, we have also shown that EtpA interacts specifically with glycans expressed on intestinal epithelial cells from blood group A individuals and that EtpA-mediated bacterial-host interactions accelerate bacterial adhesion and effective delivery of both the heat-labile and heat-stable toxins of ETEC. Collectively, these data provide additional insight into the complex molecular basis of severe ETEC diarrheal illness that may inform rational design of vaccines to protect those at highest risk."},"29779247":{"title":"Randomized controlled trials define shape of dose response for Pollinex Quattro Birch allergoid immunotherapy.","abstract":"The Birch Allergoid, Tyrosine Adsorbate, Monophosphoryl Lipid A (POLLINEX® Quattro Plus 1.0 ml Birch 100%) is an effective, well-tolerated short course subcutaneous immunotherapy. We performed 2 phase II studies to determine its optimal cumulative dose. The studies were conducted in Germany, Austria and Poland (EudraCT numbers: 2012-004336-28 PQBirch203 and 2015-000984-15 PQBirch204) using a wide range of cumulative doses. In both studies, subjects were administered 6 therapy injections weekly outside the pollen season. Conjunctival Provocation Tests were performed at screening, baseline and 3-4 weeks after completing treatment, to quantify the reduction in Total Symptom Scores (as the primary endpoint) with each cumulative dose. Multiple Comparison Procedure and Modeling analysis was used to test for the dose response, shape of the curve and estimation of the median effective dose (ED50 ), a measure of potency. Statistically significant dose responses (P < .01 & .001) were seen, respectively. The highest cumulative dose in PQBirch204 (27 300 standardized units [SU]) approached a plateau. Potency of the PQBirch was demonstrated by an ED50 2723 SU, just over half the current dose. Prevalence of treatment-emergent adverse events was similar for active doses, most being short-lived and mild. Compliance was over 85% in all groups. Increasing the cumulative dose of PQBirch 5.5-fold from 5100 to 27 300 SU achieved an absolute point difference from placebo of 1.91, a relative difference 32.3% and an increase in efficacy of 50%, without compromising safety. The cumulative dose response was confirmed to be curvilinear in shape."},"29795025":{"title":"Enhanced Anti-Mycobacterium tuberculosis Immunity over Time with Combined Drug and Immunotherapy Treatment.","abstract":"It is estimated that one third of the world's population is infected with Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb). This astounding statistic, in combination with costly and lengthy treatment regimens make the development of therapeutic vaccines paramount for controlling the global burden of tuberculosis. Unlike prophylactic vaccination, therapeutic immunization relies on the natural pulmonary infection with Mtb as the mucosal prime that directs boost responses back to the lung. The purpose of this work was to determine the protection and safety profile over time following therapeutic administration of our lead Mtb vaccine candidate, ID93 with a synthetic TLR4 agonist (glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant in a stable emulsion (GLA-SE)), in combination with rifampicin, isoniazid, and pyrazinamide (RHZ) drug treatment. We assessed the host inflammatory immune responses and lung pathology 7⁻22 weeks post infection, and determined the therapeutic efficacy of combined treatment by enumeration of the bacterial load and survival in the SWR/J mouse model. We show that drug treatment alone, or with immunotherapy, tempered the inflammatory responses measured in brochoalveolar lavage fluid and plasma compared to untreated cohorts. RHZ combined with therapeutic immunizations significantly enhanced TH1-type cytokine responses in the lung over time, corresponding to decreased pulmonary pathology evidenced by a significant decrease in the percentage of lung lesions and destructive lung inflammation. These data suggest that bacterial burden assessment alone may miss important correlates of lung architecture that directly contribute to therapeutic vaccine efficacy in the preclinical mouse model. We also confirmed our previous finding that in combination with antibiotics therapeutic immunizations provide an additive survival advantage. Moreover, therapeutic immunizations with ID93/GLA-SE induced differential T cell immune responses over the course of infection that correlated with periods of enhanced bacterial control over that of drug treatment alone. Here we advance the immunotherapy model and investigate reliable correlates of protection and Mtb control."},"29861179":{"title":"A lipid A-based TLR4 mimetic effectively adjuvants a Yersinia pestis rF-V1 subunit vaccine in a murine challenge model.","abstract":"Vaccination can significantly reduce worldwide morbidity and mortality to infectious diseases, thereby reducing the health burden as a result of microbial infections. Effective vaccines contain three components: a delivery system, an antigenic component of the pathogen, and an adjuvant. With the growing use of purely recombinant or synthetic antigens, there is a need to develop novel adjuvants that enhance the protective efficacy of a vaccine against infection. Using a structure-activity relationship (SAR) model, we describe here the synthesis of a novel TLR4 ligand adjuvant compound, BECC438, by bacterial enzymatic combinatorial chemistry (BECC). This compound was identified using an in vitro screening pipeline consisting of (i) NFκB activation and cytokine production by immortalized cell lines, (ii) cytokine production by primary human PBMCs, and (iii) upregulation of surface costimulatory markers by primary human monocyte-derived dendritic cells. Using this SAR screening regimen, BECC438 was shown to produce an innate immune activation profile comparable to the well-characterized TLR4 agonist adjuvant compound, phosphorylated hexa-acyl disaccharide (PHAD). To evaluate the in vivo adjuvant activity of BECC438, we used the known protective Yersinia pestis (Yp) antigen, rF1-V, in a murine prime-boost vaccination schedule followed by lethal challenge. In addition to providing protection from lethal challenge, BECC438 stimulated production of higher levels of rF1-V-specific total IgG as compared to PHAD after both prime and boost vaccinations. Similar to PHAD, BECC438 elicited a balanced IgG1/IgG2c response, indicative of active TH2/TH1-driven immunity. These data demonstrate that the novel BECC-derived TLR4L adjuvant, BECC438, elicits cytokine profiles in vitro similar to PHAD, induces high antigen-specific immune titers and a TH1-associated IgG2c immune titer skew, and protects mice against a lethal Yp challenge."},"29861183":{"title":"Virus-derived immunostimulatory RNA induces type I IFN-dependent antibodies and T-cell responses during vaccination.","abstract":"Adjuvants potentiate and direct the type of immunity elicited during vaccination. However, there is a shortage of adjuvants that elicit robust type-1 immunity required for the control of intracellular pathogens, including viruses. RNA derived from Sendai virus defective viral genomes (DVGs) stimulates RIG-I-like receptor signaling leading to type-1 immunity during infection. Here, we investigated whether a 268nt DVG-derived oligonucleotide (DDO) functions as a strong type-1 immunity-inducing adjuvant during vaccination against influenza virus. We show that DDO induces robust IgG2c antibody production when used in an inactivated influenza A virus (IAV) vaccine. Additionally, DDO induces Th1 and CD8+ T-cell responses able to protect against heterosubtypic IAV challenge. Interestingly, DDO synergized with AddaVax and skewed the immune response towards type-1 immunity. The adjuvancy of DDO alone and in synergy with AddaVax was heavily dependent on type I interferon signaling. Our data support a critical role for type I interferon in the induction of type-1 immune responses during vaccination and demonstrate that DDO is a type-1 immunity orienting vaccine adjuvant that can be used alone or in synergy with other adjuvants."},"29883663":{"title":"Stable Nanoemulsions for the Delivery of Small Molecule Immune Potentiators.","abstract":"Adjuvants are required to enhance immune responses to typically poorly immunogenic recombinant antigens. Toll-like receptor agonists (TLRa) have been widely evaluated as adjuvants because they activate the innate immune system. Currently, licensed vaccines adjuvanted with TLRa include the TLR4 agonist monophosphoryl lipid, while additional TLRa are in clinical development. Unfortunately, naturally derived TLRa are often complex and heterogeneous entities, which brings formulation challenges. Consequently, the use of synthetic small-molecule TLRa has significant advantages because they are well-defined discrete molecules, which can be chemically modified to modulate their physicochemical properties. We previously described the discovery of a family of TLR7 agonists based on a benzonaphthyridine scaffold. In addition, we described how Alum could be used to deliver these synthetic TLRa. An alternative adjuvant approach with enhanced potency over Alum are squalene containing oil-in-water emulsions, which have been included in licensed influenza vaccines, including Fluad (MF59 adjuvanted) and Pandemrix (AS03 adjuvanted). Here, we describe how to enable the co-delivery of a TLR7 agonist in a squalene-based oil-in-water emulsion, for adjuvant evaluation."},"29964134":{"title":"Immune responses induced by nano-self-assembled lipid adjuvants based on a monomycoloyl glycerol analogue after vaccination with the Chlamydia trachomatis major outer membrane protein.","abstract":"Nanocarriers based on inverse hexagonal liquid crystalline phases (hexosomes) show promising potential as vaccine delivery systems. Their unique internal structure, composed of both lipophilic domains and water-containing channels, renders them capable of accommodating immunopotentiating compounds and antigens. However, their adjuvant properties are poorly understood. We hypothesized that the supramolecular structure of the lyotropic liquid crystalline phase influences the immunostimulatory activity of lipid-based nanocarriers. To test this, hexosomes were designed containing the lipid phytantriol (Phy) and the immunopotentiator monomycoloyl glycerol-1 (MMG-1). Self-assembly of Phy and MMG-1 into nanocarriers featuring an internal hexagonal phase was confirmed by small-angle X-ray scattering and cryogenic transmission electron microscopy. The effect of the nanostructure on the adjuvant activity was studied by comparing the immunogenicity of Phy/MMG-1 hexosomes with MMG-1-containing lamellar liquid crystalline nanoparticles (liposomes, CAF04). The quality and magnitude of the elicited immune responses were determined after vaccination of CB6/F1 mice using the Chlamydia trachomatis major outer membrane protein (MOMP) as antigen. MMG-1-based hexosomes potentiated significantly stronger MOMP-specific humoral responses than CAF04 liposomes. The liposome-based vaccine formulation induced a much stronger MOMP-specific cell-mediated immune response compared to hexosome-adjuvanted MOMP, which elicited minimal MOMP-specific T-cell stimulation after vaccination. Hence, our data demonstrates that hexosomal and liposomal adjuvants activate the immune system via different mechanisms. Our work provides valuable insights into the adjuvant potential of hexosomes and emphasizes that engineering of the supramolecular structure can be used to design adjuvants with customized immunological properties."},"29967183":{"title":"Induction of oligoclonal CD8 T cell responses against pulmonary metastatic cancer by a phospholipid-conjugated TLR7 agonist.","abstract":"Recent advances in cancer immunotherapy have improved patient survival. However, only a minority of patients with pulmonary metastatic disease respond to treatment with checkpoint inhibitors. As an alternate approach, we have tested the ability of systemically administered 1V270, a toll-like receptor 7 (TLR7) agonist conjugated to a phospholipid, to inhibit lung metastases in two variant murine 4T1 breast cancer models, as well as in B16 melanoma, and Lewis lung carcinoma models. In the 4T1 breast cancer models, 1V270 therapy inhibited lung metastases if given up to a week after primary tumor initiation. The treatment protocol was facilitated by the minimal toxic effects exerted by the phospholipid TLR7 agonist compared with the unconjugated agonist. 1V270 exhibited a wide therapeutic window and minimal off-target receptor binding. The 1V270 therapy inhibited colonization by tumor cells in the lungs in an NK cell dependent manner. Additional experiments revealed that single administration of 1V270 led to tumor-specific CD8+ cell-dependent adaptive immune responses that suppressed late-stage metastatic tumor growth in the lungs. T cell receptor (TCR) repertoire analyses showed that 1V270 therapy induced oligoclonal T cells in the lungs and mediastinal lymph nodes. Different animals displayed commonly shared TCR clones following 1V270 therapy. Intranasal administration of 1V270 also suppressed lung metastasis and induced tumor-specific adaptive immune responses. These results indicate that systemic 1V270 therapy can induce tumor-specific cytotoxic T cell responses to pulmonary metastatic cancers and that TCR repertoire analyses can be used to monitor, and to predict, the response to therapy."},"29983563":{"title":"Development of a thermostable nanoemulsion adjuvanted vaccine against tuberculosis using a design-of-experiments approach.","abstract":"Adjuvants have the potential to increase the efficacy of protein-based vaccines but need to be maintained within specific temperature and storage conditions. Lyophilization can be used to increase the thermostability of protein pharmaceuticals; however, no marketed vaccine that contains an adjuvant is currently lyophilized, and lyophilization of oil-in-water nanoemulsion adjuvants presents a specific challenge. We have previously demonstrated the feasibility of lyophilizing a candidate adjuvanted protein vaccine against Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb), ID93 + GLA-SE, and the subsequent improvement of thermostability; however, further development is required to prevent physicochemical changes and degradation of the TLR4 agonist glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant formulated in an oil-in-water nanoemulsion (SE). In this study, we took a systematic approach to the development of a thermostable product by first identifying compatible solution conditions and stabilizing excipients for both antigen and adjuvant. Next, we applied a design-of-experiments approach to identify stable lyophilized drug product formulations. We identified specific formulations that contain disaccharide or a combination of disaccharide and mannitol that can achieve substantially improved thermostability and maintain immunogenicity in a mouse model when tested in accelerated and real-time stability studies. These efforts will aid in the development of a platform formulation for use with other similar vaccines."},"30031164":{"title":"An immunopotentiator, ophiopogonin D, encapsulated in a nanoemulsion as a robust adjuvant to improve vaccine efficacy.","abstract":"As an ingredient of vaccines, adjuvants are indispensable for enhancing and directly inducing robust and extensive adaptive immune responses associated with vaccine antigens. In this study, we initially determined that a new molecular immunopotentiator, ophiopogonin D (OP-D), enhanced the antibody response to antigen. Because OP-D has certain disadvantages, including poor solubility, we next encapsulated OP-D in a nanoemulsion adjuvant (nanoemulsion-encapsulated OP-D, NOD) using low-energy emulsification methods. The NOD thus produced was small, with an average size of 76.45 nm, and exhibited good distribution (PdI value 0.16), significantly increasing the solubility of OP-D. Furthermore, NOD exhibited reduced cellular toxicity and acute toxicity. Our results showed that a fusion antigen of MRSA (HlaH35LIsdB348-465) formulated with NOD significantly improved humoral and cellular immune responses compared to those observed in the antigen/OP-D and antigen/AlPO4 groups. Compared with antigen/OP-D, the antigen formulated with NOD more effectively promoted antigen uptake by dendritic cells (DCs) and the activation of antigen-presenting cells (APCs). Moreover, the NOD-formulated antigen had ideal protective efficacy in a MRSA sepsis model by inducing more potent antibody responses and a Th1/Th17-biased CD4+ T cell immune response. Therefore, these results suggest that NOD is a promising and robust adjuvant platform for a MRSA vaccine. We first identified a new powerful immunopotentiator, Ophiopogonin D, among dozens of natural products and then used nanotechnology to construct a highly efficient and low toxic adjuvant system (NOD). Our approach intersects natural medicinal chemistry, nanomaterials and immunology, revealing that a strong adjuvant activity of this adjuvant system was verified in vitro and in vivo, and the application of MRSA subunit vaccine model for survival experiments achieved a 100% protection rate. This research illustrate that NOD is a promising and robust adjuvant platform for subunit vaccines."},"30079840":{"title":"Novel methods for nucleotide length control in double-stranded polyinosinic-polycytidylic acid production using uneven length components.","abstract":"Polyinosinic-polycytidylic acid (PIC), a double-stranded RNA that induces innate immunity in mammals, is a candidate immunopotentiator for pharmaceuticals. The potency and adverse effects of PIC are strongly correlated with the nucleotide length, and the inability to precisely control the length in PIC production limits its practical use. Length extension during the annealing process is the major factor underlying the lack of control, but tuning the annealing conditions is insufficient to resolve this issue. In this study, we developed a novel method to produce accurate nucleotide length PIC at an industrial scale. The length extension was significantly suppressed by the assembly of multiple short polyinosinic acid molecules with one long polycytidylic acid molecule. A newly developed PIC, uPIC100-400, demonstrated a reproducible length and better storage stability than that of corresponding evenly structured PIC. Human dsRNA receptors exhibited equivalent responsiveness to uPIC100-400 and the evenly structured PIC with the same length."},"30089691":{"title":"Adjuvant-Dependent Enhancement of HIV Env-Specific Antibody Responses in Infant Rhesus Macaques.","abstract":"Toward the goal of developing an effective HIV vaccine that can be administered in infancy to protect against postnatal and lifelong sexual HIV transmission risks, the current pilot study was designed to compare the effect of novel adjuvants on the induction of HIV Env-specific antibody responses in infant macaques. Aligning our studies with the adjuvanted proteins evaluated in a prime-boost schedule with ALVAC in the ongoing HVTN (HIV Vaccine Trials Network) 702 efficacy trial, we selected the bivalent clade C Env immunogens gp120 C.1086 and gp120 TV1 in combination with the MF59 adjuvant. However, we hypothesized that the adjuvant system AS01, that is included in the pediatric RTS,S malaria vaccine, would promote Env-specific antibody responses superior to those of the oil-in-water MF59 emulsion adjuvant. In a second study arm, we compared two emulsions, glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant formulated in a stable emulsion (GLA-SE) and 3M-052-SE, containing Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) and TLR7/TLR8 (TLR7/8) ligand, respectively. The latter adjuvant had been previously demonstrated to be especially effective in activating neonatal antigen-presenting cells. Our results demonstrate that different adjuvants drive quantitatively or qualitatively distinct responses to the bivalent Env vaccine. AS01 induced higher Env-specific plasma IgG antibody levels than the antigen in MF59 and promoted improved antibody function in infants, and 3M-052-SE outperformed GLA-SE by inducing the highest breadth and functionality of antibody responses. Thus, distinct adjuvants are likely to be required for maximizing vaccine-elicited immune responses in infants, particularly when immunization in infancy aims to elicit both perinatal and lifelong immunity against challenging pathogens such as HIV.IMPORTANCE Alum remains the adjuvant of choice for pediatric vaccines. Yet the distinct nature of the developing immune system in infants likely requires novel adjuvants targeted specifically at the pediatric population to reach maximal vaccine efficacy with an acceptable safety profile. The current study supports the idea that additional adjuvants for pediatric vaccines should be, and need to be, tested in infants for their potential to enhance immune responses. Using an infant macaque model, our results suggest that both AS01 and 3M-052-SE can significantly improve and better sustain HIV Env-specific antibody responses than alum. Despite the limited number of animals, the results revealed interesting differences that warrant further testing of promising novel adjuvant candidates in larger preclinical and clinical studies to define the mechanisms leading to adjuvant-improved antibody responses and to identify targets for adjuvant and vaccine optimization."},"30127384":{"title":"Sustained protective immunity against Bordetella pertussis nasal colonization by intranasal immunization with a vaccine-adjuvant combination that induces IL-17-secreting TRM cells.","abstract":"Current acellular pertussis (aP) vaccines induce strong antibody and Th2 responses but fail to protect against nasal colonization and transmission of Bordetella pertussis. Furthermore, immunity wanes rapidly after immunization. We have developed a novel adjuvant combination (called LP-GMP), comprising c-di-GMP, an intracellular receptor stimulator of interferon genes (STING) agonist, and LP1569, a TLR2 agonist from B. pertussis, which synergistically induces production of IFN-β, IL-12 and IL-23, and maturation of dendritic cells. Parenteral immunization of mice with an experimental aP vaccine formulated with LP-GMP promoted Th1 and Th17 responses and conferred protection against lung infection with B. pertussis. Intranasal immunization with the same aP vaccine-induced potent B. pertussis-specific Th17 responses and IL-17-secreting respiratory tissue-resident memory (TRM) CD4 T cells, and conferred a high level of protection against nasal colonization as well as lung infection, which was sustained for at least 10 months. Furthermore, long-term protection against nasal colonization with B. pertussis correlated with the number of IL-17-secreting TRM cells in nasal tissue. Our study has identified an approach for inducing IL-17-secreting TRM cells that sustain sterilizing immunity against nasal colonization of mice with B. pertussis, and could form the basis of a third generation pertussis vaccine for humans."},"30144550":{"title":"Immunopotentiation of Polysaccharides of Atractylodes macrocephala Koidz-loaded nanostructured lipid carriers as an adjuvant.","abstract":"The immunoregulation and immunopotentiation of Polysaccharides of Atractylodes macrocephala Koidz (PAMK) have been widely demonstrated. Nanostructured lipid carriers (NLC) have high drug loading capacity for lipophilic and hydrophilic drugs, and have good biocompatibility and high bioavailability. In this study, the effect of PAKM-NLC on the surface molecule expression of bone marrow-derived dendritic cells (BMDCs) in vitro was investigated by flow cytometry, and the cytokines secreted by dendritic cell supernatants were detected by ELISA. The results showed that compared with other control groups, PAMK-NLC could significantly increase the expression of CD80 and CD86 and promote the secretion of IL-1β, IL-12, TNF-α and IFN-γ, indicating that PAMK-NLC have a more pronounced effect on the maturation and differentiation of BMDCs. In addition, effects of PAMK-NLC nanoparticles on OVA-immunized mice were explored. Compared with other control groups, PAMK-NLC-OVA can significantly promote the production of OVA-specific antibodies in serum, stimulate the secretion of cytokines, increase the proliferation rate of spleen lymphocytes after OVA re-stimulation, and induce stronger activation of CD3+CD4+ and CD3+CD8+ lymphocytes. As an adjuvant of OVA, PAMK-NLC has a better immunological enhancement effect than PAMK or blank NLC, and has good adjuvant activity."},"30210819":{"title":"The TLR-4 agonist adjuvant, GLA-SE, improves magnitude and quality of immune responses elicited by the ID93 tuberculosis vaccine: first-in-human trial.","abstract":"Tuberculosis (TB) is the leading cause of infectious death worldwide. Development of improved TB vaccines that boost or replace BCG is a major global health goal. ID93 + GLA-SE is a fusion protein TB vaccine candidate combined with the Toll-like Receptor 4 agonist adjuvant, GLA-SE. We conducted a phase 1, randomized, double-blind, dose-escalation clinical trial to evaluate two dose levels of the ID93 antigen, administered intramuscularly alone or in combination with two dose levels of the GLA-SE adjuvant, in 60 BCG-naive, QuantiFERON-negative, healthy adults in the US (ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT01599897). When administered as 3 injections, 28 days apart, all dose levels of ID93 alone and ID93 + GLA-SE demonstrated an acceptable safety profile. All regimens elicited vaccine-specific humoral and cellular responses. Compared with ID93 alone, vaccination with ID93 + GLA-SE elicited higher titers of ID93-specific antibodies, a preferential increase in IgG1 and IgG3 subclasses, and a multifaceted Fc-mediated effector function response. The addition of GLA-SE also enhanced the magnitude and polyfunctional cytokine profile of CD4+ T cells. The data demonstrate an acceptable safety profile and indicate that the GLA-SE adjuvant drives a functional humoral and T-helper 1 type cellular response."},"30218687":{"title":"Advax augments B and T cell responses upon influenza vaccination via the respiratory tract and enables complete protection of mice against lethal influenza virus challenge.","abstract":"Administration of influenza vaccines via the respiratory tract has potential benefits over conventional parenteral administration, inducing immunity directly at the site of influenza exposure as well as being needle free. In this study, we investigated the suitability of Advax™, a stable particulate polymorph of inulin, also referred to as delta inulin, as a mucosal adjuvant for whole inactivated influenza vaccine (WIV) administered either as a liquid or dry powder formulation. Spray freeze-drying produced Advax-adjuvanted WIV powder particles in a size range (1-5 μm) suitable for inhalation. The physical and biological characteristics of both WIV and Advax remained unaltered both by admixing WIV with Advax and by spray freeze drying. Upon intranasal or pulmonary immunization, both liquid and dry powder formulations containing Advax induced significantly higher systemic, mucosal and cellular immune responses than non-adjuvanted WIV formulations. Furthermore, pulmonary immunization with Advax-adjuvanted WIV led to robust memory B cell responses along with an increase of lung localization factors i.e. CXCR3, CD69, and CD103. A less pronounced but still positive effect of Advax was seen on memory T cell responses. In contrast to animals immunized with WIV alone, all animals pulmonary immunized with a single dose of Advax-adjuvanted WIV were fully protected with no visible clinical symptoms against a lethal dose of influenza virus. These data confirm that Advax is a potent mucosal adjuvant that boosts vaccine-induced humoral and cellular immune responses both in the lung and systemically with major positive effects on B-cell memory and complete protection against live virus. Hence, respiratory tract immunization, particularly via the lungs, with Advax-adjuvanted WIV formulation as a liquid or dry powder is a promising alternative to parenteral influenza vaccination."},"30221194":{"title":"The adjuvant GLA-AF enhances human intradermal vaccine responses.","abstract":"Adjuvants are key to shaping the immune response to vaccination, but to date, no adjuvant suitable for human use has been developed for intradermal vaccines. These vaccines could be self-administered and sent through the mail as they do not require long needles or technical expertise in immunization. In the event of a pandemic outbreak, this approach could alleviate the congregation of patients in health centers and thus reduce the potential of these centers to enhance the spread of lethal infection. A reliable and potent vaccine system for self-administration would provide an effective countermeasure for delivery through existing product distribution infrastructure. We report results from preclinical and clinical trials that demonstrate the feasibility of an adjuvanted, intradermal vaccine that induced single shot protection in ferrets and seroprotection in humans against one of the more lethal strains of pandemic flu, Indonesia H5N1. In the human trial, the vaccine was safe and clinical responses were above approvable endpoints for a protective flu vaccine. Inclusion of a modern TLR4 (Toll-like receptor 4) agonist-based adjuvant was critical to the development of the response in the intradermal groups. In humans, this is the first report of a safe and effective intradermal adjuvant, GLA-AF (aqueous formulation of glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant), and provides a future path for developing a vaccine-device combination for distribution by mail and self-administration in case of a pandemic."},"30245818":{"title":"A novel prostate cancer immunotherapy using prostate-specific antigen peptides and Candida skin test reagent as an adjuvant.","abstract":"Our group developed the use of the Candida skin test reagent as an adjuvant of cell-mediated immunity in designing a human papillomavirus therapeutic vaccine. Here, this technology is being applied for designing a prostate cancer immunotherapy. Peptides based on the prostate-specific antigen amino acid sequences were selected, synthesized, and evaluated in terms of their (1) solubility, (2) maturation effects on Langerhans cells by fluorescence-activated cell sorter analysis, and (3) recognition by peripheral immune cells from prostate cancer patients using interferon-γ enzyme-linked immunospot assay. The peptides were soluble in 10 mM succinate at pH of 5 with 5% glycine, and they demonstrated no maturation effects on Langerhans cells from healthy donors. On the other hand, peripheral immune cells from 4 of 10 prostate cancer patients examined had positive responses in enzyme-linked immunospot assay to one or more prostate-specific antigen peptides. In summary, a design and a formulation of a novel prostate cancer immunotherapy are described. The immunogenicity of prostate-specific antigen peptides in some prostate cancer patients supports further development of this immunotherapy."},"30248001":{"title":"Identification of novel adenovirus genotype 90 in children from Bangladesh.","abstract":"Novel adenovirus genotypes are associated with outbreaks of disease, such as acute gastroenteritis, renal disease, upper respiratory tract infection and keratoconjunctivitis. Here, we identify novel and variant adenovirus genotypes in children coinfected with enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli, in Bangladesh. Metagenomic sequencing of stool was performed and whole adenovirus genomes were extracted. A novel species D virus, designated genotype 90 (P33H27F67) was identified, and the partial genome of a putative recombinant species B virus was recovered. Furthermore, the enteric types HAdV-A61 and HAdV-A40 were found in stool specimens. Knowledge of the diversity of adenovirus genomes circulating worldwide, especially in low-income countries where the burden of disease is high, will be required to ensure that future vaccination strategies cover the diversity of adenovirus strains associated with disease."},"30270039":{"title":"The Mevalonate Pathway Is a Druggable Target for Vaccine Adjuvant Discovery.","abstract":"Motivated by the clinical observation that interruption of the mevalonate pathway stimulates immune responses, we hypothesized that this pathway may function as a druggable target for vaccine adjuvant discovery. We found that lipophilic statin drugs and rationally designed bisphosphonates that target three distinct enzymes in the mevalonate pathway have potent adjuvant activities in mice and cynomolgus monkeys. These inhibitors function independently of conventional \"danger sensing.\" Instead, they inhibit the geranylgeranylation of small GTPases, including Rab5 in antigen-presenting cells, resulting in arrested endosomal maturation, prolonged antigen retention, enhanced antigen presentation, and T cell activation. Additionally, inhibiting the mevalonate pathway enhances antigen-specific anti-tumor immunity, inducing both Th1 and cytolytic T cell responses. As demonstrated in multiple mouse cancer models, the mevalonate pathway inhibitors are robust for cancer vaccinations and synergize with anti-PD-1 antibodies. Our research thus defines the mevalonate pathway as a druggable target for vaccine adjuvants and cancer immunotherapies."},"30291987":{"title":"Lipid conjugation of TLR7 agonist Resiquimod ensures co-delivery with the liposomal Cationic Adjuvant Formulation 01 (CAF01) but does not enhance immunopotentiation compared to non-conjugated Resiquimod+CAF01.","abstract":"Pattern recognition receptors, including the Toll-like receptors (TLRs), are important in the induction and activation of two critical arms of the host defence to pathogens and microorganisms: the rapid innate immune response (as characterised by the production of Th1 promoting cytokines and type 1 interferons) and the adaptive immune response. Through this activation, ligands and agonists of TLRs can enhance immunotherapeutic efficacy. Resiquimod is a small (water-soluble) agonist of the endosome-located Toll-like receptors 7 and 8 (TLR7/8). However due to its molecular attributes it rapidly distributes throughout the body after injection. To circumvent this, these TLR agonists can be incorporated within delivery systems, such as liposomes, to promote the co-delivery of both antigen and agonists to antigen presenting cells. In this present study, resiquimod has been chemically conjugated to a lipid to form a lipid-TLR7/8 agonist conjugate which can be incorporated within immunogenic cationic liposomes composed of dimethyldioctadecylammonium bromide (DDA) and the immunostimulatory glycolipid trehalose 6,6' - dibehenate (TDB). This DDA:TDB-TLR7/8 formulation offers similar vesicle characteristics to DDA:TDB (size and charge) and offers high retention of both resiquimod and the electrostatically adsorbed TB subunit antigen Ag85B-ESAT6-Rv2660c (H56). Following immunisation through the intramuscular (i.m.) route, these cationic DDA:TDB-TLR7/8 liposomes form a vaccine depot at the injection site. However, immunisation studies have shown that this biodistribution does not translate into notably increased antibody nor Th1 responses at the spleen and draining popliteal lymph node compared to DDA:TDB liposomes. This work demonstrates that the conjugation of TLR7/8 agonists to cationic liposomes can promote co-delivery but the immune responses stimulated do not merit the added complexity considerations of the formulation."},"30302281":{"title":"A combination of TLR-4 agonist and saponin adjuvants increases antibody diversity and protective efficacy of a recombinant West Nile Virus antigen.","abstract":"Members of the Flaviviridae family are the leading causes of mosquito-borne viral disease worldwide. While dengue virus is the most prevalent, the recent Zika virus outbreak in the Americas triggered a WHO public health emergency, and yellow fever and West Nile viruses (WNV) continue to cause regional epidemics. Given the sporadic nature of flaviviral epidemics both temporally and geographically, there is an urgent need for vaccines that can rapidly provide effective immunity. Protection from flaviviral infection is correlated with antibodies to the viral envelope (E) protein, which encodes receptor binding and fusion functions. TLR agonist adjuvants represent a promising tool to enhance the protective capacity of flavivirus vaccines through dose and dosage reduction and broadening of antiviral antibody responses. This study investigates the ability to improve the immunogenicity and protective capacity of a promising clinical-stage WNV recombinant E-protein vaccine (WN-80E) using a novel combination adjuvant, which contains a potent TLR-4 agonist and the saponin QS21 in a liposomal formulation (SLA-LSQ). Here, we show that, in combination with WN-80E, optimized SLA-LSQ is capable of inducing long-lasting immune responses in preclinical models that provide sterilizing protection from WNV challenge, reducing viral titers following WNV challenge to undetectable levels in Syrian hamsters. We have investigated potential mechanisms of action by examining the antibody repertoire generated post-immunization. SLA-LSQ induced a more diverse antibody response to WNV recombinant E-protein antigen than less protective adjuvants. Collectively, these studies identify an adjuvant formulation that enhances the protective capacity of recombinant flavivirus vaccines."},"30302285":{"title":"Malaria vaccine candidate based on Duffy-binding protein elicits strain transcending functional antibodies in a Phase I trial.","abstract":"Reticulocyte invasion by Plasmodium vivax requires interaction of the Duffy-binding protein (PvDBP) with host Duffy antigen receptor for chemokines (DARCs). The binding domain of PvDBP maps to a cysteine-rich region referred to as region II (PvDBPII). Blocking this interaction offers a potential path to prevent P. vivax blood-stage growth and P. vivax malaria. This forms the rationale for development of a vaccine based on PvDBPII. Here we report results of a Phase I randomized trial to evaluate the safety and immunogenicity of recombinant PvDBPII formulated with glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant-stable emulsion (GLA-SE). Thirty-six malaria-naive, healthy Indian male subjects aged 18-45 years were assigned into three cohorts corresponding to doses of 10, 25 and 50 µg of PvDBPII formulated with 5 µg of GLA-SE. Each cohort included nine PvDBPII/GLA-SE vaccinees and three hepatitis B control vaccine recipients. Each subject received the assigned vaccine intramuscularly on days 0, 28 and 56, and was followed up till day 180. No serious AE was reported and PvDBPII/GLA-SE was well-tolerated and safe. Analysis by ELISA showed that all three doses of PvDBPII elicited antigen-specific binding-inhibitory antibodies. The 50 µg dose elicited antibodies against PvDBPII that had the highest binding-inhibitory titres and were most persistent. Importantly, the antibody responses were strain transcending and blocked receptor binding of diverse PvDBP alleles. These results support further clinical development of PvDBPII/GLA-SE to evaluate efficacy against sporozoite or blood-stage challenge in controlled human malaria infection (CHMI) models and against natural P. vivax challenge in malaria endemic areas."},"30310067":{"title":"Non-neutralizing antibodies elicited by recombinant Lassa-Rabies vaccine are critical for protection against Lassa fever.","abstract":"Lassa fever (LF), caused by Lassa virus (LASV), is a viral hemorrhagic fever for which no approved vaccine or potent antiviral treatment is available. LF is a WHO priority disease and, together with rabies, a major health burden in West Africa. Here we present the development and characterization of an inactivated recombinant LASV and rabies vaccine candidate (LASSARAB) that expresses a codon-optimized LASV glycoprotein (coGPC) and is adjuvanted by a TLR-4 agonist (GLA-SE). LASSARAB elicits lasting humoral response against LASV and RABV in both mouse and guinea pig models, and it protects both guinea pigs and mice against LF. We also demonstrate a previously unexplored role for non-neutralizing LASV GPC-specific antibodies as a major mechanism of protection by LASSARAB against LF through antibody-dependent cellular functions. Overall, these findings demonstrate an effective inactivated LF vaccine and elucidate a novel humoral correlate of protection for LF."},"30312742":{"title":"Passive inhalation of dry powder influenza vaccine formulations completely protects chickens against H5N1 lethal viral challenge.","abstract":"Bird to human transmission of high pathogenicity avian influenza virus (HPAIV) poses a significant risk of triggering a flu pandemic in the human population. Therefore, vaccination of susceptible poultry during an HPAIV outbreak might be the best remedy to prevent such transmissions. To this end, suitable formulations and an effective mass vaccination method that can be translated to field settings needs to be developed. Our previous study in chickens has shown that inhalation of a non-adjuvanted dry powder influenza vaccine formulation during normal breathing results in partial protection against lethal influenza challenge. The aim of the present study was to improve the effectiveness of pulmonary vaccination by increasing the vaccine dose deposited in the lungs and by the use of suitable adjuvants. Two adjuvants, namely, Bacterium-like Particles (BLP) and Advax, were spray freeze dried with influenza vaccine into dry powder formulations. Delivery of dry formulations directly at the syrinx revealed that BLP and Advax had the potential to boost either systemic or mucosal immune responses or both. Upon passive inhalation of dry influenza vaccine formulations in an optimized set-up, BLP and Advax/BLP adjuvanted formulations induced significantly higher systemic immune responses than the non-adjuvanted formulation. Remarkably, all vaccinated animals not only survived a lethal influenza challenge, but also did not show any shedding of challenge virus except for two out of six animals in the Advax group. Overall, our results indicate that passive inhalation is feasible, effective and suitable for mass vaccination of chickens if it can be adapted to field settings."},"30322015":{"title":"The Safety of an Adjuvanted Autologous Cancer Vaccine Platform in Canine Cancer Patients.","abstract":"Canine cancer rates are similar to humans, though the therapeutic options might be limited. Inducing a patient's own immune system to have an anti-tumor response is an attractive approach to cancer therapy. In this safety study, autologous tumor vaccines produced specifically for each canine patient were combined with Advax™, a novel non-inflammatory immunomodulator and vaccine adjuvant and were tested for safety in a diverse range of patient presentations alone or in combination with other treatments. Canine patients had their tumor biopsied, debulked or resected and the tumor antigens were processed into an autologous vaccine formulated with Advax™ adjuvant with or without rhizavidin as an additional immune stimulant. Patients treated early in the trial received two intramuscular (IM) doses, 2 weeks apart. As the study progressed and no issues of safety were observed, the protocol was changed to weekly vaccinations for 4 weeks followed by monthly booster shots. Over the 150 I.M injections delivered to date, the vaccine was found to be very safe and no significant adverse reactions were observed. These results justify ongoing development and future controlled studies of this autologous vaccine approach."},"30348190":{"title":"The adjuvant G3 promotes a Th1 polarizing innate immune response in equine PBMC.","abstract":"The immunomodulatory effect of a new particulate adjuvant, G3, alone or in combination with agonists to TLR2/1 or TLR5 was evaluated in cultures of equine PBMC. Exposure to the G3 adjuvant up-regulated genes encoding IFN-γ, IL-1β, IL-6, IL-8, IL-12p40 and IL-23p19 in the majority of the horses tested, indicating that the G3 adjuvant induced a pro-inflammatory and Th1 dominated profile. In accordance, genes encoding IL-13, IL-4, IL-10 and TGF-β remained unaffected and genes encoding IFN-α, IL-17A and TNF-α were only occasionally and weakly induced. The two TLR agonists Pam3CSK4 (TLR2/1) and FliC (TLR5) induced cytokine profiles characterized by a clear induction of IL-10 as well as up-regulation of the genes encoding IL-1β, IL-6 and IL-8. The presence of G3 modified this response, in particular by reducing the FliC and Pam3CSK4 induced production of IL-10. Furthermore, G3 acted in synergy with Pam3CSK4 in enhancing the production of IFN-γ whereas G3 combined with FliC increased the gene expression of IL-8. Thus, the G3 adjuvant seems to have the capacity to promote a Th1 polarizing innate immune response in eqPBMC, both by favouring IFN-γ production and by reducing production of IL-10 induced by co-delivered molecules. These features make G3 an interesting candidate to further evaluate for its potential as an adjuvant in equine vaccines."},"30364187":{"title":"Class-B CpG-ODN Formulated With a Nanostructure Induces Type I Interferons-Dependent and CD4+ T Cell-Independent CD8+ T-Cell Response Against Unconjugated Protein Antigen.","abstract":"There is a need for new vaccine adjuvant strategies that offer both vigorous antibody and T-cell mediated protection to combat difficult intracellular pathogens and cancer. To this aim, we formulated class-B synthetic oligodeoxynucleotide containing unmethylated cytosine-guanine motifs (CpG-ODN) with a nanostructure (Coa-ASC16 or coagel) formed by self-assembly of 6-0-ascorbyl palmitate ester. Our previous results demonstrated that mice immunized with ovalbumin (OVA) and CpG-ODN formulated with Coa-ASC16 (OVA/CpG-ODN/Coa-ASC16) elicited strong antibodies (IgG1 and IgG2a) and Th1/Th17 cellular responses without toxic systemic effects. These responses were superior to those induced by a solution of OVA with CpG-ODN or OVA/CpG-ODN formulated with aluminum salts. In this study, we investigated the capacity of this adjuvant strategy (CpG-ODN/Coa-ASC16) to elicit CD8+ T-cell response and some of the underlying cellular and molecular mechanisms involved in adaptive response. We also analyzed whether this adjuvant strategy allows a switch from an immunization scheme of three-doses to one of single-dose. Our results demonstrated that vaccination with OVA/CpG-ODN/Coa-ASC16 elicited an antigen-specific long-lasting humoral response and importantly-high quality CD8+ T-cell immunity with a single-dose immunization. Moreover, Coa-ASC16 promoted co-uptake of OVA and CpG-ODN by dendritic cells. The CD8+ T-cell response induced by OVA/CpG-ODN/Coa-ASC16 was dependent of type I interferons and independent of CD4+ T-cells, and showed polyfunctionality and efficiency against an intracellular pathogen. Furthermore, the cellular and humoral responses elicited by the nanostructured formulation were IL-6-independent. This system provides a simple and inexpensive adjuvant strategy with great potential for future rationally designed vaccines."},"30386348":{"title":"Heterologous Immunization With Defined RNA and Subunit Vaccines Enhances T Cell Responses That Protect Against Leishmania donovani.","abstract":"The rapid generation of strong T cell responses is highly desirable and viral vectors can have potent CD8+ T cell-inducing activity. Immunity to leishmaniasis requires selective T cell responses, with immunization schemes that raise either CD4 or CD8 T cell responses being protective in small animal models. We have defined the leishmaniasis vaccine candidate recombinant fusion antigens, LEISH-F2 and LEISH-F3+, that when formulated in a stable emulsion with a Toll-like receptor (TLR) 4 agonist, induce protective CD4+ T cell responses in animal models as well as providing therapeutic efficacy in canine leishmaniasis and in clinical trials in leishmaniasis patients. We used the genetic sequences of these validated vaccine antigens to design RNA vaccine constructs. Immunization of mice with the RNA replicons induced potent, local innate responses that were surprisingly independent of TLR7 and activated antigen-presenting cells (APC) to prime for extremely potent antigen-specific T helper 1 type responses upon heterologous boosting with either of the subunit vaccines (recombinant antigen with second generation glucopyranosyl lipid A in stable oil-in-water emulsion; SLA-SE). Inclusion of RNA in the immunization schedule also generated MHCI-restricted T cell responses. Immunization with LEISH-F2-expressing RNA vaccine followed later by subunit vaccine afforded protection against challenge with Leishmania donovani. Together, these data indicate the utility of heterologous prime-boost immunization schemes for the induction of potent antigen-specific CD4 and CD8 T cell responses for protection against intracellular pathogens."},"30396811":{"title":"Immunocorrelates of CAF family adjuvants.","abstract":"The development of the CAF family adjuvant was initiated around 20 years ago when Statens Serum Institut was preparing its first generation protein based recombinant subunit vaccine against tuberculosis for clinical testing, but realized that there were no clinically relevant adjuvants available that would support the strong CMI response needed. Since then the aim for the adjuvant research at Statens Serum Institut has been to provide adjuvants with distinct immunogenicity profiles correlating with protection for any given infectious disease. Two of the adjuvants CAF01 and CAF09 are currently being evaluated in human clinical trials. The purpose of this review is to give an overview of the immunocorrelates of those CAF adjuvants furthest in development. We further aim at giving an overview of the mechanism of action of the CAF adjuvants."},"30402504":{"title":"OK-432 Acts as Adjuvant to Modulate T Helper 2 Inflammatory Responses in a Murine Model of Asthma.","abstract":"Enhanced type 2 helper T (Th2) cell responses to inhaled harmless allergens are strongly associated with the development of allergic diseases. Antigen formulated with an appropriate adjuvant can elicit suitable systemic immunity to protect individuals from disease. Although much has been learned about Th1-favored immunomodulation of OK-432, a streptococcal preparation with antineoplastic activity, little is known about its adjuvant effect for allergic diseases. Herein, we demonstrate that OK-432 acts as an adjuvant to favor a systemic Th1 polarization with an elevation in interferon- (IFN-) γ and ovalbumin- (OVA-) immunoglobulin (Ig) G2a. Prior vaccination with OK-432 formulated against OVA attenuated lung eosinophilic inflammation and Th2 cytokine responses that were caused by challenging with OVA through the airway. This vaccination with OK-432 augmented the ratios of IFN-γ/interleukin- (IL-) 4 cytokine and IgG2a/IgG1 antibody compared to the formulation with Th2 adjuvant aluminum hydroxide (Alum) or antigen only. The results obtained in this study lead us to propose a potential novel adjuvant for clinical use such as prophylactic vaccination for pathogens and immunotherapy in atopic diseases."},"30470547":{"title":"Applications of Immunomodulatory Immune Synergies to Adjuvant Discovery and Vaccine Development.","abstract":"Pathogens comprise a diverse set of immunostimulatory molecules that activate the innate immune system during infection. The immune system recognizes distinct combinations of pathogenic molecules leading to multiple immune activation events that cooperate to produce enhanced immune responses, known as 'immune synergies'. Effective immune synergies are essential for the clearance of pathogens, thus inspiring novel adjuvant design to improve vaccines. We highlight current vaccine adjuvants and the importance of immune synergies to adjuvant and vaccine design. The focus is on new technologies used to study and apply immune synergies to adjuvant and vaccine development. Finally, we discuss how recent findings can be applied to the future design and characterization of synergistic adjuvants and vaccines."},"30473185":{"title":"Evaluation of the safety and immunogenicity of the oral inactivated multivalent enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli vaccine ETVAX in Bangladeshi adults in a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled Phase I trial using electrochemiluminescence and ELISA assays for immunogenicity analyses.","abstract":"The safety and immunogenicity of the second generation oral enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli (ETEC) vaccine ETVAX, consisting of inactivated recombinant E. coli strains over-expressing the colonization factors (CFs) CFA/I, CS3, CS5 and CS6 and the heat labile toxoid LCTBA, were evaluated in Bangladeshi volunteers. To enable analysis of antibody responses against multiple vaccine antigens for subsequent use in small sample volumes from children, a sensitive electrochemiluminescence (ECL) assay for analysis of intestine-derived antibody-secreting cell responses using the antibodies in lymphocyte secretions (ALS) assay was established using Meso Scale Discovery technology. Three groups of Bangladeshi adults (n = 15 per group) received two oral doses of ETVAX with or without double mutant LT (dmLT) adjuvant or placebo in the initial part of a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, age-descending, dose-escalation trial. CF- and LTB-specific ALS and plasma IgA responses were analyzed by ECL and/or ELISA. ETVAX was safe and well tolerated in the adults. Magnitudes of IgA ALS responses determined by ECL and ELISA correlated well (r = 0.85 to 0.98 for the five primary antigens, P < 0.001) and ECL was selected as the ALS readout method. ALS IgA responses against each of the primary antigens were detected in 87-100% of vaccinees after the first and in 100% after the second vaccine dose. Plasma IgA responses against different CFs and LTB were observed in 62-93% and 100% of vaccinees, respectively. No statistically significant adjuvant effect of dmLT on antibody responses to any antigen was detected, but the overall antigenic breadth of the plasma IgA response tended to favor the adjuvanted vaccine when responses to 4 or more or 5 vaccine antigens were considered. Responses in placebo recipients were infrequent and mainly detected against single antigens. The promising results in adults supported testing ETVAX in descending age groups of children. ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT02531802."},"30496299":{"title":"Optimizing the immunogenicity of HIV prime-boost DNA-MVA-rgp140/GLA vaccines in a phase II randomized factorial trial design.","abstract":"We evaluated the safety and immunogenicity of (i) an intradermal HIV-DNA regimen given with/without intradermal electroporation (EP) as prime and (ii) the impact of boosting with modified vaccinia virus Ankara (HIV-MVA) administered with or without subtype C CN54rgp140 envelope protein adjuvanted with Glucopyranosyl Lipid A (GLA-AF) in volunteers from Tanzania and Mozambique. Healthy HIV-uninfected adults (N = 191) were randomized twice; first to one of three HIV-DNA intradermal priming regimens by needle-free ZetaJet device at weeks 0, 4 and 12 (Group I: 2x0.1mL [3mg/mL], Group II: 2x0.1mL [3mg/mL] plus EP, Group III: 1x0.1mL [6mg/mL] plus EP). Second the same volunteers received 108 pfu HIV-MVA twice, alone or combined with CN54rgp140/GLA-AF, intramuscularly by syringe, 16 weeks apart. Additionally, 20 volunteers received saline placebo. Vaccinations and electroporation did not raise safety concerns. After the last vaccination, the overall IFN-γ ELISpot response rate to either Gag or Env was 97%. Intradermal electroporation significantly increased ELISpot response rates to HIV-DNA-specific Gag (66% group I vs. 86% group II, p = 0.026), but not to the HIV-MVA vaccine-specific Gag or Env peptide pools nor the magnitude of responses. Co-administration of rgp140/GLA-AF with HIV-MVA did not impact the frequency of binding antibody responses against subtype B gp160, C gp140 or E gp120 antigens (95%, 99%, 79%, respectively), but significantly enhanced the magnitude against subtype B gp160 (2700 versus 300, p<0.001) and subtype C gp140 (24300 versus 2700, p<0.001) Env protein. At relatively low titers, neutralizing antibody responses using the TZM-bl assay were more frequent in vaccinees given adjuvanted protein boost. Intradermal electroporation increased DNA-induced Gag response rates but did not show an impact on Env-specific responses nor on the magnitude of responses. Co-administration of HIV-MVA with rgp140/GLA-AF significantly enhanced antibody responses."},"30555488":{"title":"Dual-Isotope SPECT/CT Imaging of the Tuberculosis Subunit Vaccine H56/CAF01: Induction of Strong Systemic and Mucosal IgA and T-Cell Responses in Mice Upon Subcutaneous Prime and Intrapulmonary Boost Immunization.","abstract":"Pulmonary tuberculosis (TB), which is caused by Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb), remains a global pandemic, despite the widespread use of the parenteral live attenuated Bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG) vaccine during the past decades. Mucosal administration of next generation TB vaccines has great potential, but developing a safe and efficacious mucosal vaccine is challenging. Hence, understanding the in vivo biodistribution and pharmacokinetics of mucosal vaccines is essential for shaping the desired immune response and for optimal spatiotemporal targeting of the appropriate effector cells in the lungs. A subunit vaccine consisting of the fusion antigen H56 (Ag85B-ESAT-6-Rv2660) and the liposome-based cationic adjuvant formulation (CAF01) confers efficient protection in preclinical animal models. In this study, we devise a novel immunization strategy for the H56/CAF01 vaccine, which comply with the intrapulmonary (i.pulmon.) route of immunization. We also describe a novel dual-isotope (111In/67Ga) radiolabeling approach, which enables simultaneous non-invasive and longitudinal SPECT/CT imaging and quantification of H56 and CAF01 upon parenteral prime and/or i.pulmon. boost immunization. Our results demonstrate that the vaccine is distributed evenly in the lungs, and there are pronounced differences in the pharmacokinetics of H56 and CAF01. We provide convincing evidence that the H56/CAF01 vaccine is not only well-tolerated when administered to the respiratory tract, but it also induces strong lung mucosal and systemic IgA and polyfunctional Th1 and Th17 responses after parenteral prime and i.pulmon. boost immunization. The study furthermore evaluate the application of SPECT/CT imaging for the investigation of vaccine biodistribution after parenteral and i.pulmon. immunization of mice."},"30563789":{"title":"A Phase 1 dose escalating study of double mutant heat-labile toxin LTR192G/L211A (dmLT) from Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli (ETEC) by sublingual or oral immunization.","abstract":"The public health burden of Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli (ETEC) is high but no vaccine is specifically approved to prevent ETEC infections. We performed a Phase 1, dose escalation study (1-50 µg) evaluating the sublingual (SL) delivery of the double mutant heat-labile toxin LTR192G/L211A (dmLT) in 80 healthy adult volunteers. The primary objective was safety and the secondary was the immunogenicity of the dmLT. Subjects received 3 doses of dmLT at days 1, 15, and 29. Subjects receiving the first dose at each dosage level were observed overnight in a research facility. The second and third doses were administered on an outpatient basis. Data from cohorts 1-4 were used to select the cohort 5 dose (25 µg), comparing SL and oral routes. The vaccine appeared safe and well tolerated with only rare development of vomiting or diarrhea. The serum anti-dmLT IgA and IgG and neutralizing antibody responses were modest after any of the SL immunizations. Serum IgA and IgG titers were increased at the higher antigen doses (25 or 50 µg) but the percent with 4-fold increases was at best 38% for both IgA and IgG. The 4-fold increase among subjects receiving all 3 doses was 43% for both IgA and IgG. Antibody titers following oral administration were, in general, significantly higher than after SL. The frequency of IgA- or IgG-ASCs in circulation were somewhat vaccine dose dependent and were detected at a moderate level. However, antibodies in saliva or stool were rarely detected. Post-vaccination increases in T cells or cytokine production were also infrequent. The dmLT vaccine formulation evaluated here was safe but only moderately immunogenic at doses up to 50 µg when administered by the SL or oral route. Studies at higher doses with better formulations appear warranted."},"30567978":{"title":"A Recombinant Rabies Virus Expressing the Marburg Virus Glycoprotein Is Dependent upon Antibody-Mediated Cellular Cytotoxicity for Protection against Marburg Virus Disease in a Murine Model.","abstract":"Marburg virus (MARV) is a filovirus related to Ebola virus (EBOV) associated with human hemorrhagic disease. Outbreaks are sporadic and severe, with a reported case mortality rate of upward of 88%. There is currently no antiviral or vaccine available. Given the sporadic nature of outbreaks, vaccines provide the best approach for long-term control of MARV in regions of endemicity. We have developed an inactivated rabies virus-vectored MARV vaccine (FILORAB3) to protect against Marburg virus disease. Immunogenicity studies in our labs have shown that a Th1-biased seroconversion to both rabies virus and MARV glycoproteins (GPs) is beneficial for protection in a preclinical murine model. As such, we adjuvanted FILORAB3 with glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant (GLA), a Toll-like receptor 4 agonist, in a squalene-in-water emulsion. Across two different BALB/c mouse challenge models, we achieved 92% protection against murine-adapted Marburg virus (ma-MARV). Although our vaccine elicited strong MARV GP antibodies, it did not strongly induce neutralizing antibodies. Through both in vitro and in vivo approaches, we elucidated a critical role for NK cell-dependent antibody-mediated cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC) in vaccine-induced protection. Overall, these findings demonstrate that FILORAB3 is a promising vaccine candidate for Marburg virus disease.IMPORTANCE Marburg virus (MARV) is a virus similar to Ebola virus and also causes a hemorrhagic disease which is highly lethal. In contrast to EBOV, only a few vaccines have been developed against MARV, and researchers do not understand what kind of immune responses are required to protect from MARV. Here we show that antibodies directed against MARV after application of our vaccine protect in an animal system but fail to neutralize the virus in a widely used virus neutralization assay against MARV. This newly discovered activity needs to be considered more when analyzing MARV vaccines or infections."},"30608149":{"title":"Impact of Polymer-TLR-7/8 Agonist (Adjuvant) Morphology on the Potency and Mechanism of CD8 T Cell Induction.","abstract":"Small molecule Toll-like receptor-7 and -8 agonists (TLR-7/8a) can be used as vaccine adjuvants to induce CD8 T cell immunity but require formulations that prevent systemic toxicity and focus adjuvant activity in lymphoid tissues. Here, we covalently attached TLR-7/8a to polymers of varying composition, chain architecture and hydrodynamic behavior (∼300 nm submicrometer particles, ∼10 nm micelles and ∼4 nm flexible random coils) and evaluated how these parameters of polymer-TLR-7/8a conjugates impact adjuvant activity in vivo. Attachment of TLR-7/8a to any of the polymer compositions resulted in a nearly 10-fold reduction in systemic cytokines (toxicity). Moreover, both lymph node cytokine production and the magnitude of CD8 T cells induced against protein antigen increased with increasing polymer-TLR-7/8a hydrodynamic radius, with the submicrometer particle inducing the highest magnitude responses. Notably, CD8 T cell responses induced by polymer-TLR-7/8a were dependent on CCR2+ monocytes and IL-12, whereas responses by a small molecule TLR-7/8a that unexpectedly persisted in vaccine-site draining lymph nodes (T1/2 = 15 h) had less dependence on monocytes and IL-12 but required Type I IFNs. This study shows how modular properties of synthetic adjuvants can be chemically programmed to alter immunity in vivo through distinct immunological mechanisms."},"30609354":{"title":"A Liposome-Based Adjuvant Containing Two Delivery Systems with the Ability to Induce Mucosal Immunoglobulin A Following a Parenteral Immunization.","abstract":"Worldwide, enteric infections rank third among all causes of disease burdens, and vaccines able to induce a strong and long-lasting intestinal immune responses are needed. Parenteral immunization generally do not generate intestinal IgA. Recently, however, injections of retinoic acid (RA) dissolved in oil, administered multiple times before vaccination to precondition the vaccine-draining lymph nodes, enabled a parenteral vaccine strategy to induce intestinal IgA. As multiple injections of RA before vaccination is not an attractive strategy for clinical practice, we aimed to develop a \"one injection\" vaccine formulation that upon parenteral administration induced intestinal IgA. Our vaccine formulation contained two liposomal delivery systems. One delivery system, based on 1,2-distearoyl- sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine stabilized with PEG, was designed to exhibit fast drainage of RA to local lymph nodes to precondition these for a mucosal immune response before being subjected to the vaccine antigen. The other delivery system, based on the cationic liposomal adjuvant CAF01 stabilized with cholesterol, was optimized for prolonged delivery of the antigen by migratory antigen-presenting cells to the preconditioned lymph node. Combined we call the adjuvant CAF23. We show that CAF23, administered by the subcutaneous route induces an antigen specific intestinal IgA response, making it a promising candidate adjuvant for vaccines against enteric diseases."},"30622742":{"title":"Reprogramming the adjuvant properties of aluminum oxyhydroxide with nanoparticle technology.","abstract":"Aluminum salts, developed almost a century ago, remain the most commonly used adjuvant for licensed human vaccines. Compared to more recently developed vaccine adjuvants, aluminum adjuvants such as Alhydrogel are heterogeneous in nature, consisting of 1-10 micrometer-sized aggregates of nanoparticle aluminum oxyhydroxide fibers. To determine whether the particle size and aggregated state of aluminum oxyhydroxide affects its adjuvant activity, we developed a scalable, top-down process to produce stable nanoparticles (nanoalum) from the clinical adjuvant Alhydrogel by including poly(acrylic acid) (PAA) polymer as a stabilizing agent. Surprisingly, the PAA:nanoalum adjuvant elicited a robust TH1 immune response characterized by antigen-specific CD4+ T cells expressing IFN-γ and TNF, as well as high IgG2 titers, whereas the parent Alhydrogel and PAA elicited modest TH2 immunity characterized by IgG1 antibodies. ASC, NLRP3 and the IL-18R were all essential for TH1 induction, indicating an essential role of the inflammasome in this adjuvant's activity. Compared to microparticle Alhydrogel this nanoalum adjuvant provided superior immunogenicity and increased protective efficacy against lethal influenza challenge. Therefore PAA:nanoalum represents a new class of alum adjuvant that preferentially enhances TH1 immunity to vaccine antigens. This adjuvant may be widely beneficial to vaccines for which TH1 immunity is important, including tuberculosis, pertussis, and malaria."},"30629148":{"title":"First-in-human, Randomized, Double-blind Clinical Trial of Differentially Adjuvanted PAMVAC, A Vaccine Candidate to Prevent Pregnancy-associated Malaria.","abstract":"Malaria in pregnancy has major impacts on mother and child health. To complement existing interventions, such as intermittent preventive treatment and use of impregnated bed nets, we developed a malaria vaccine candidate with the aim of reducing sequestration of asexual \"blood-stage\" parasites in the placenta, the major virulence mechanism. The vaccine candidate PAMVAC is based on a recombinant fragment of VAR2CSA, the Plasmodium falciparum protein responsible for binding to the placenta via chondroitin sulfate A (CSA). Healthy, adult malaria-naive volunteers were immunized with 3 intramuscular injections of 20 μg (n = 9) or 50 μg (n = 27) PAMVAC, adjuvanted with Alhydrogel or glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant in stable emulsion (GLA-SE) or in a liposomal formulation with QS21 (GLA-LSQ). Allocation was random and double blind. The vaccine was given every 4 weeks. Volunteers were observed for 6 months following last immunization. All PAMVAC formulations were safe and well tolerated. A total of 262 adverse events (AEs) occurred, 94 (10 grade 2 and 2 grade 3) at least possibly related to the vaccine. No serious AEs occurred. Distribution and severity of AEs were similar in all arms. PAMVAC was immunogenic in all participants. PAMVAC-specific antibody levels were highest with PAMVAC-GLA-SE. The antibodies inhibited binding of VAR2CSA expressing P. falciparum-infected erythrocytes to CSA in a standardized functional assay. PAMVAC formulated with Alhydrogel or GLA-based adjuvants was safe, well tolerated, and induced functionally active antibodies. Next, PAMVAC will be assessed in women before first pregnancies in an endemic area. EudraCT 2015-001827-21; ClinicalTrials.gov NCT02647489."},"30629748":{"title":"The Forensic Pathology of Fatal Attacks by the Large Mammals Inhabiting the Nordic Wilderness-A Literature Review.","abstract":"Fatalities due to animal attacks are rare in forensic medical work but have been known to pose problems due to their potential to mimic homicide. This review summarizes reported cases of fatal attacks by large mammals that inhabit the Nordic wilderness, namely brown bear, moose, wild boar, and wolf, and attempts to elucidate injury patterns that can guide the forensic pathologist to identifying the species and modus operandi of the attacker. A tendency toward a species-specific injury pattern was observed. Injuries by bear and especially wolf are dominated by biting whereas moose and wild boar do not seem to bite their victims. The bear uses its paws, both for hitting, resulting in crush injury and fractures, and clawing with resulting excoriations and possible penetrating injuries. Crush injuries and fractures appear, on the other hand, to be minimal or absent in attacks by wolf and wild boar."},"30638799":{"title":"Intradermal vaccination with a Pseudomonas aeruginosa vaccine adjuvanted with a mutant bacterial ADP-ribosylating enterotoxin protects against acute pneumonia.","abstract":"Respiratory infections are a leading cause of morbidity and mortality globally. This is partially due to a lack of effective vaccines and a clear understanding of how vaccination route and formulation influence protective immunity in mucosal tissues such as the lung. Pseudomonas aeruginosa is an opportunistic pathogen capable of causing acute pulmonary infections and is a leading cause of hospital-acquired and ventilator-associated pneumonia. With multidrug-resistant P. aeruginosa infections on the rise, the need for a vaccine against this pathogen is critical. Growing evidence suggests that a successful P. aeruginosa vaccine may require mucosal antibody and Th1- and Th17-type CD4+ T cells to prevent pulmonary infection. Intradermal immunization with adjuvants, such as the bacterial ADP-Ribosylating Enterotoxin Adjuvant (BARE) double mutant of E. coli heat-labile toxin (dmLT), can direct protective immune responses to mucosal tissues, including the lungs. We reasoned that intradermal immunization with P. aeruginosa outer membrane proteins (OMPs) adjuvanted with dmLT could drive neutralizing antibodies and migration of CD4+ T cells to the lungs and protect against P. aeruginosa pneumonia in a murine model. Here we show that mice immunized with OMPs and dmLT had significantly more antigen-specific IgG and Th1- and Th17-type CD4+ memory T cells in the pulmonary environment compared to control groups of mice. Furthermore, OMPs and dmLT immunized mice were significantly protected against an otherwise lethal lung infection. Protection was associated with early IFN-γ and IL-17 production in the lungs of immunized mice. These results indicate that intradermal immunization with dmLT can drive protective immunity to the lung mucosa and may be a viable vaccination strategy for a multitude of respiratory pathogens."},"30656932":{"title":"Synthesis and Evaluation of a QS-17/18-Based Vaccine Adjuvant.","abstract":"We have synthesized a QS-17/18 analogue (7) and evaluated its adjuvant activity in the formulation with rHagB antigen. Compound 7 and QS-21 analogues 5 and 6 are presumably the major components of GPI-0100, a widely used complex mixture of semisynthetic derivatives of Quillaja saponaria (QS) Molina saponins. The QS-17/18 analogue 7 shows an adjuvant activity profile similar to that of GPI-0100, potentiating mixed Th-1/Th-2 immune responses, which is different from those of QS-21 analogues 5 and 6 that probably only induce a Th2-like immunity. The combination of QS-17/18 and QS-21 analogues does not show a synergistic effect. These results suggest that QS-17/18 analogue 7 might be the active component of GPI-0100 responsible for its immunostimulant property. Therefore, compound 7 can not only be a structurally defined alternative to GPI-0100 but also provide a valuable clue for rational design of new QS-based vaccine adjuvants with better adjuvant properties."},"30678964":{"title":"The adjuvant effect of C60(OH)22 nanoparticles promoting both humoral and cellular immune responses to HCV recombinant proteins.","abstract":"Hepatitis c virus (HCV) infection is one of major causes for chronic liver diseases worldwide and could lead to death. Development of effective HCV vaccines is a powerful auxiliary method of existing treatments. Adjuvants are necessary for modern vaccines to promote immune responses. Among the various nanomaterials that have been developed, multihydroxylated fullerene (C60(OH)22) has been proved as an efficient adjuvant for human immunodeficiency virus DNA vaccine. Here, we utilized three types of HCV recombinant proteins as antigens to investigate the activity of C60(OH)22 as a protein vaccine adjuvant. The proteins were carried by C60(OH)22 in a way of surface adsorption and self-assemble encapsulation. C60(OH)22 at a relatively low dose was sufficient to promote both humoral and cellular immune responses to HCV protein antigens and reduce the usage of antigen. These results demonstrated the positive adjuvant properties of C60(OH)22 when applied to protein vaccines."},"30733711":{"title":"Injectable Excipients as Novel Influenza Vaccine Adjuvants.","abstract":"Influenza outbreaks can be either seasonal or pandemic. Vaccination is an effective strategy to control influenza; however, the efficacy of the currently available inactivated influenza virus vaccines is suboptimal, especially in the elderly. Vaccine efficacy can be improved by the addition of adjuvants, but few adjuvants have been approved for human vaccines. To explore novel, safe, and effective adjuvants for influenza vaccines, here we used a mouse model to screen 46 injectable drug additives approved in Japan. Of these 46 candidates, we identified 20 compounds that enhanced the efficacy of the split influenza HA vaccine against lethal virus challenge. These 20 compounds included 15 novel adjuvant candidates and 5 compounds with previously reported adjuvant effects for other antigens but not for influenza vaccine. Given that these additives are already approved for human use, the hurdle for their clinical use as novel and effective adjuvants for influenza or other vaccines is lower than for other adjuvant candidates whose safety profiles are unknown."},"30760832":{"title":"Mucosal boosting of H56:CAF01 immunization promotes lung-localized T cells and an accelerated pulmonary response to Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection without enhancing vaccine protection.","abstract":"T cell-mediated protection against Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) is dependent upon the ability to localize within the site of pulmonary infection and directly interact with infected cells. In turn, vaccine strategies to improve rapid T cell targeting of Mtb-infected cells after pulmonary exposure are being actively pursued. Given parenterally, the subunit vaccine H56:CAF01 elicits polyfunctional CD4 T cells that localize to the lung parenchyma and confer durable protection. Here, we find that airway mucosal boosting of parenteral H56:CAF01 immunization greatly enhances the population of long-lived lung-resident T cells (Trm) and increases early vaccine T cell responses to pulmonary Mtb challenge in multiple mouse models. However, mucosal boosting does not alter the Th1/17 vaccine signature typical of H56:CAF01 and does not further improve durable control of pulmonary infection following aerosol Mtb-challenge. Additional mucosal boosting with H56:CAF01 further enhances the Trm response without further improving protection, while blocking the recruitment of non-Trm with FTY720-treatment failed to exposed Trm-mediated protection in mucosally boosting animals. These results demonstrate the limitations of maximizing lung-localized Trm in vaccine control of pulmonary Mtb infection, especially within an immunization protocol that is already optimized for the induction of mucosal-homing Th17 cells."},"30778066":{"title":"HIV-1 vaccination by needle-free oral injection induces strong mucosal immunity and protects against SHIV challenge.","abstract":"The oral mucosa is an attractive site for mucosal vaccination, however the thick squamous epithelium limits antigen uptake. Here we utilize a modified needle-free injector to deliver immunizations to the sublingual and buccal (SL/B) tissue of rhesus macaques. Needle-free SL/B vaccination with modified vaccinia Ankara (MVA) and a recombinant trimeric gp120 protein generates strong vaccine-specific IgG responses in serum as well as vaginal, rectal and salivary secretions. Vaccine-induced IgG responses show a remarkable breadth against gp70-V1V2 sequences from multiple clades of HIV-1. In contrast, topical SL/B immunizations generates minimal IgG responses. Following six intrarectal pathogenic SHIV-SF162P3 challenges, needle-free but not topical immunization results in a significant delay of acquisition of infection. Delay of infection correlates with non-neutralizing antibody effector function, Env-specific CD4+ T-cell responses, and gp120 V2 loop specific antibodies. These results demonstrate needle-free MVA/gp120 oral vaccination as a practical and effective route to induce protective immunity against HIV-1."},"30787109":{"title":"A Combined YopB and LcrV Subunit Vaccine Elicits Protective Immunity against Yersinia Infection in Adult and Infant Mice.","abstract":"Yersinia enterocolitica causes a severe enteric infection in infants and young children. There is no vaccine approved for use in humans. We investigated the immunogenicity and protective capacity of Yersinia YopB, a conserved type III secretion system protein, alone or combined with LcrV in adult mice immunized intranasally. YopB or LcrV (5 μg) administered with the Escherichia coli double mutant heat-labile toxin (dmLT) adjuvant afforded modest (10-30%) protection against lethal Y. enterocolitica oral infection. The combination of YopB and LcrV (5 μg each) dramatically improved vaccine efficacy (70-80%). Additionally, it afforded complete protection against Y. pestis pulmonary infection. Immunization with YopB/LcrV+dmLT resulted in Ag-specific serum IgG, systemic and mucosal Ab-secreting cells, as well as IFN-γ, TNF-α, IL-2, IL-6, IL-17A, and KC production by spleen cells. Serum Abs elicited by YopB/LcrV+dmLT had enhanced bactericidal and opsonophagocytic killing activity. After Y. enterocolitica challenge, YopB/LcrV+dmLT-vaccinated mice exhibited intact intestinal tissue, active germinal centers in mesenteric lymph nodes, IgG+ and IgA+ plasmablasts in the lamina propria, and Abs in intestinal fluid. On the contrary, complete tissue destruction and abscesses were seen in placebo recipients that succumbed to infection. Mice immunized as infants with YopB+dmLT or LcrV+dmLT achieved 60% protection against lethal Y. enterocolitica infection, and vaccine efficacy increased to 90-100% when they received YopB/LcrV+dmLT. YopB+dmLT also afforded substantial (60%) protection when administered intradermally to infant mice. YopB/LcrV+dmLT is a promising subunit vaccine candidate with the potential to elicit broad protection against Yersinia spp."},"30797634":{"title":"Live attenuated enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli (ETEC) vaccine with dmLT adjuvant protects human volunteers against virulent experimental ETEC challenge.","abstract":"There is no licensed vaccine against enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli (ETEC), a major cause of diarrhea-associated morbidity and mortality among infants and children in low-income countries and travelers. The results of this vaccination/challenge study demonstrate strong protection by an attenuated ETEC vaccine candidate, ACE527, when co-administered with a mucosal adjuvant, the double-mutant heat-labile toxin (dmLT) of ETEC. Sixty healthy adults participated in a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind study with three doses of lyophilized ACE527 (∼3 × 109 of each strain per dose) administered orally with or without dmLT adjuvant (25 µg/dose). Six months later, 36 of these volunteers and a control group of 21 unvaccinated volunteers were challenged with virulent ETEC strain H10407. The primary outcome was severe diarrhea, defined as passing >800 g of unformed stools during the inpatient period following challenge. The vaccine was well tolerated and induced robust immune responses to key antigens. The protective efficacy (PE) against the primary outcome of severe diarrhea was 65.9% (95% confidence interval [CI] 5.4-87.7, p = 0.003). Among subjects receiving the adjuvanted vaccine, the attack rate of severe diarrhea was 23.1, while in unimmunized controls it was 67.7%. The PE against diarrhea of any severity was 58.5% (95% CI 3.8- 82.1, p = 0.016). There was a strong inverse correlation between shedding of the vaccine strain after either of the first two doses and absence of severe diarrhea upon challenge (RR = 0.29, 95% CI 0.08-1.05, p = 0.041). Challenge strain shedding was 10-fold lower in those receiving the adjuvant than in those receiving vaccine alone. The unadjuvanted vaccine was not protective (PE = 23.1%). The results of this study support further development of ACE527 + dmLT as a vaccine for children in endemic countries and travelers. This is the first clinical demonstration that dmLT can contribute significantly to vaccine efficacy and may warrant testing with other oral vaccines. (ClinicalTrials.gov registration: NCT01739231)."},"30800131":{"title":"Vaccination With Mouse Dendritic Cells Loaded With an IpaD-IpaB Fusion Provides Protection Against Shigellosis.","abstract":"Diarrheal diseases are a major cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide. They are most prevalent in settings with inadequate sanitation, poor hygiene and contaminated water. An important diarrheal pathogen in such settings is Shigella. No commercially available vaccine exists against shigellosis and immunity to the pathogen is serotype-restricted. We have previously shown that a polypeptide fusion of the Type Three Secretion Apparatus (T3SA) proteins IpaB and IpaD (named DBF) was efficacious as a vaccine against Shigella. Vaccination using different administration routes indicated that protection conferred by DBF did not fully correlate with antibodies. To define the immune responses involved in protection, we studied cellular responses to intranasal immunization with the DBF and the adjuvant dmLT. We found dendritic cell (DC) activation at the nasal associated lymphoid tissue (NALT). Activation markers CD86 and MHCII significantly increase in cells from immunized mice. Antigen exposure in vitro further confirmed the upregulation of CD80 and CD40 in primary dendritic cells. Animals immunized with antigen-primed dendritic cells were protected against Shigella infection, at levels comparable to the efficacy of immunization with the protein vaccine formulation. Therefore, we show that antigen-primed DCs are enough to provide immunity, and propose a mechanism of protection against Shigella spp. based on DC-mediated antigen presentation to T cells."},"30832356":{"title":"Efficacy of an Adjuvanted Middle East Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus Spike Protein Vaccine in Dromedary Camels and Alpacas.","abstract":"MERS-CoV is present in dromedary camels throughout the Middle East and Africa. Dromedary camels are the primary zoonotic reservoir for human infections. Interruption of the zoonotic transmission chain from camels to humans, therefore, may be an effective strategy to control the ongoing MERS-CoV outbreak. Here we show that vaccination with an adjuvanted MERS-CoV Spike protein subunit vaccine confers complete protection from MERS-CoV disease in alpaca and results in reduced and delayed viral shedding in the upper airways of dromedary camels. Protection in alpaca correlates with high serum neutralizing antibody titers. Lower titers of serum neutralizing antibodies correlate with delayed and significantly reduced shedding in the nasal turbinates of dromedary camels. Together, these data indicate that induction of robust neutralizing humoral immune responses by vaccination of naïve animals reduces shedding that potentially could diminish the risk of zoonotic transmission."},"30838180":{"title":"The Combination Vaccine Adjuvant System Alum/c-di-AMP Results in Quantitative and Qualitative Enhanced Immune Responses Post Immunization.","abstract":"The development of new effective vaccines strongly depends on adjuvants and formulations able to stimulate not only strong humoral responses against a certain pathogen but also effector as well as memory CD4+ and CD8+ T cells (Dubensky et al., 2013). However, the majority of vaccines licensed for human use or currently under clinical investigation fail to stimulate efficient cellular responses. For example, vaccines against hepatitis B virus (HBV), human papillomavirus (HPV), diphtheria, tetanus and influenza are usually administered by intramuscular (i.m.) injection and contain aluminum salts (alum) as adjuvant. Alum has been shown to stimulate Th2 immune cells resulting in increased production of antigen-specific antibodies but to be incapable of stimulating robust Th1 or cytotoxic responses. To overcome such limitations recent research has focused on the development of adjuvant combinations (e.g., MF59, AS03 or AS04) to not only further strengthen antigen-specific immune responses but to also allow their modulation. We have shown previously that bis-(3',5')-cyclic dimeric adenosine monophosphate (c-di-AMP) constitutes a promising adjuvant candidate stimulating both effective Th1/Th2 and cytotoxic immune responses when included in mucosal or parenteral vaccine formulations. In the present work we demonstrate that c-di-AMP can be also combined with other adjuvants like alum resulting in increases in not only humoral responses but more striking also in cellular immune responses. This leads to improved vaccine efficacy against intracellular pathogens."},"30849373":{"title":"Induction of Potent Neutralizing Antibody Responses by a Designed Protein Nanoparticle Vaccine for Respiratory Syncytial Virus.","abstract":"Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) is a worldwide public health concern for which no vaccine is available. Elucidation of the prefusion structure of the RSV F glycoprotein and its identification as the main target of neutralizing antibodies have provided new opportunities for development of an effective vaccine. Here, we describe the structure-based design of a self-assembling protein nanoparticle presenting a prefusion-stabilized variant of the F glycoprotein trimer (DS-Cav1) in a repetitive array on the nanoparticle exterior. The two-component nature of the nanoparticle scaffold enabled the production of highly ordered, monodisperse immunogens that display DS-Cav1 at controllable density. In mice and nonhuman primates, the full-valency nanoparticle immunogen displaying 20 DS-Cav1 trimers induced neutralizing antibody responses ∼10-fold higher than trimeric DS-Cav1. These results motivate continued development of this promising nanoparticle RSV vaccine candidate and establish computationally designed two-component nanoparticles as a robust and customizable platform for structure-based vaccine design."},"30984200":{"title":"Cross-Protective Potential and Protection-Relevant Immune Mechanisms of Whole Inactivated Influenza Virus Vaccines Are Determined by Adjuvants and Route of Immunization.","abstract":"Adjuvanted whole inactivated virus (WIV) influenza vaccines show promise as broadly protective influenza vaccine candidates. Using WIV as basis we assessed the relative efficacy of different adjuvants by carrying out a head-to-head comparison of the liposome-based adjuvants CAF01 and CAF09 and the protein-based adjuvants CTA1-DD and CTA1-3M2e-DD and evaluated whether one or more of the adjuvants could induce broadly protective immunity. Mice were immunized with WIV prepared from A/Puerto Rico/8/34 (H1N1) virus intramuscularly with or without CAF01 or intranasally with or without CAF09, CTA1-DD, or CTA1-3M2e-DD, followed by challenge with homologous, heterologous or heterosubtypic virus. In general, intranasal immunizations were significantly more effective than intramuscular immunizations in inducing virus-specific serum-IgG, mucosal-IgA, and splenic IFNγ-producing CD4 T cells. Intranasal immunizations with adjuvanted vaccines afforded strong cross-protection with milder clinical symptoms and better control of virus load in lungs. Mechanistic studies indicated that non-neutralizing IgG antibodies and CD4 T cells were responsible for the improved cross-protection while IgA antibodies were dispensable. The role of CD4 T cells was particularly pronounced for CTA1-3M2e-DD adjuvanted vaccine as evidenced by CD4 T cell-dependent reduction of lung virus titers and clinical symptoms. Thus, intranasally administered WIV in combination with effective mucosal adjuvants appears to be a promising broadly protective influenza vaccine candidate."},"31009889":{"title":"Pharmaceutical and preclinical evaluation of Advax adjuvant as a dose-sparing strategy for ant venom immunotherapy.","abstract":"A major challenge in broader clinical application of Jack Jumper ant venom immunotherapy (JJA VIT) is the scarcity of ant venom which needs to be manually harvested from wild ants. Adjuvants are commonly used for antigen sparing in other vaccines, and thereby could potentially have major benefits to extend JJA supplies if they were to similarly enhance JJA VIT immunogenicity. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the physicochemical and microbiological stability and murine immunogenicity of low-dose JJA VIT formulated with a novel polysaccharide adjuvant referred to as delta inulin or Advax™. Jack Jumper ant venom (JJAV) protein stability was assessed by UPLC-UV, SDS-PAGE, SDS-PAGE immunoblot, and ELISA inhibition. Diffraction light scattering was used to assess particle size distribution of Advax; pH and benzyl alcohol quantification by UPLC-UV were used to assess the physicochemical stability of JJAV diluent, and endotoxin content and preservative efficacy test was used to investigate the microbiological properties of the adjuvanted VIT formulation. To assess the effect of adjuvant on JJA venom immunogenicity, mice were immunised four times with JJAV alone or formulated with Advax adjuvant. JJA VIT formulated with Advax was found to be physicochemically and microbiologically stable for at least 2 days when stored at 4 and 25 °C with a trend for an increase in allergenic potency observed beyond 2 days of storage. Low-dose JJAV formulated with Advax adjuvant induced significantly higher JJAV-specific IgG than a 5-fold higher dose of JJAV alone, consistent with a powerful allergen-sparing effect. The pharmaceutical data provides important guidance on the formulation, storage and use of JJA VIT formulated with Advax adjuvant, with the murine immunogenicity studies providing a strong rationale for a planned clinical trial to test the ability of Advax adjuvant to achieve 4-fold JJAV dose sparing in JJA-allergic human patients."},"31027511":{"title":"Vaccination with nanoparticles combined with micro-adjuvants protects against cancer.","abstract":"Induction of strong T cell responses, in particular cytotoxic T cells, is a key for the generation of efficacious therapeutic cancer vaccines which yet, remains a major challenge for the vaccine developing world. Here we demonstrate that it is possible to harness the physiological properties of the lymphatic system to optimize the induction of a protective T cell response. Indeed, the lymphatic system sharply distinguishes between nanoscale and microscale particles. The former reaches the fenestrated lymphatic system via diffusion, while the latter either need to be transported by dendritic cells or form a local depot. Our previously developed cucumber-mosaic virus-derived nanoparticles termed (CuMVTT-VLPs) incorporating a universal Tetanus toxoid epitope TT830-843 were assessed for their draining kinetics using stereomicroscopic imaging. A nano-vaccine has been generated by coupling p33 epitope as a model antigen to CuMVTT-VLPs using bio-orthogonal Cu-free click chemistry. The CuMVTT-p33 nano-sized vaccine has been next formulated with the micron-sized microcrystalline tyrosine (MCT) adjuvant and the formed depot effect was studied using confocal microscopy and trafficking experiments. The immunogenicity of the nanoparticles combined with the micron-sized adjuvant was next assessed in an aggressive transplanted murine melanoma model. The obtained results were compared to other commonly used adjuvants such as B type CpGs and Alum. Our results showed that CuMVTT-VLPs can efficiently and rapidly drain into the lymphatic system due to their nano-size of ~ 30 nm. However, formulating the nanoparticles with the micron-sized MCT adjuvant of ~ 5 μM resulted in a local depot for the nanoparticles and a longer exposure time for the immune system. The preclinical nano-vaccine CuMVTT-p33 formulated with the micron-sized MCT adjuvant has enhanced the specific T cell response in the stringent B16F10p33 murine melanoma model. Furthermore, the micron-sized MCT adjuvant was as potent as B type CpGs and clearly superior to the commonly used Alum adjuvant when total CD8+, specific p33 T cell response or tumour protection were assessed. The combination of nano- and micro-particles may optimally harness the physiological properties of the lymphatic system. Since the nanoparticles are well defined virus-like particles and the micron-sized adjuvant MCT has been used for decades in allergen-specific desensitization, this approach may readily be translated to the clinic."},"31068425":{"title":"Optimized Mucosal Modified Vaccinia Virus Ankara Prime/Soluble gp120 Boost HIV Vaccination Regimen Induces Antibody Responses Similar to Those of an Intramuscular Regimen.","abstract":"The benefits of mucosal vaccines over injected vaccines are difficult to ascertain, since mucosally administered vaccines often induce serum antibody responses of lower magnitude than those induced by injected vaccines. This study aimed to determine if mucosal vaccination using a modified vaccinia virus Ankara expressing human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) gp120 (MVAgp120) prime and a HIV-1 gp120 protein boost could be optimized to induce serum antibody responses similar to those induced by an intramuscularly (i.m.) administered MVAgp120 prime/gp120 boost to allow comparison of an i.m. immunization regimen to a mucosal vaccination regimen for the ability to protect against a low-dose rectal simian-human immunodeficiency virus (SHIV) challenge. A 3-fold higher antigen dose was required for intranasal (i.n.) immunization with gp120 to induce serum anti-gp120 IgG responses not significantly different than those induced by i.m. immunization. gp120 fused to the adenovirus type 2 fiber binding domain (gp120-Ad2F), a mucosal targeting ligand, exhibited enhanced i.n. immunogenicity compared to gp120. MVAgp120 was more immunogenic after i.n. delivery than after gastric or rectal delivery. Using these optimized vaccines, an i.n. MVAgp120 prime/combined i.m. (gp120) and i.n. (gp120-Ad2F) boost regimen (i.n./i.m.-plus-i.n.) induced serum anti-gp120 antibody titers similar to those induced by the intramuscular prime/boost regimen (i.m./i.m.) in rabbits and nonhuman primates. Despite the induction of similar systemic anti-HIV-1 antibody responses, neither the i.m./i.m. nor the i.n./i.m.-plus-i.n. regimen protected against a repeated low-dose rectal SHIV challenge. These results demonstrate that immunization regimens utilizing the i.n. route are able to induce serum antigen-specific antibody responses similar to those induced by systemic immunization.IMPORTANCE Mucosal vaccination is proposed as a method of immunization able to induce protection against mucosal pathogens that is superior to protection provided by parenteral immunization. However, mucosal vaccination often induces serum antigen-specific immune responses of lower magnitude than those induced by parenteral immunization, making the comparison of mucosal and parenteral immunization difficult. We identified vaccine parameters that allowed an immunization regimen consisting of an i.n. prime followed by boosters administered by both i.n. and i.m. routes to induce serum antibody responses similar to those induced by i.m. prime/boost vaccination. Additional studies are needed to determine the potential benefit of mucosal immunization for HIV-1 and other mucosally transmitted pathogens."},"31071377":{"title":"Effects of cationic adjuvant formulation particle type, fluidity and immunomodulators on delivery and immunogenicity of saRNA.","abstract":"Self-amplifying RNA (saRNA) is well suited as a vaccine platform against chlamydia, as it is relatively affordable and scalable, has been shown to induce immunity against multivalent antigens, and can result in protein expression for up to 60 days. Cationic adjuvant formulations (CAFs) have been previously investigated as an adjuvant for protein subunit vaccines; here we optimize the CAFs for delivery of saRNA in vivo and observe the immunogenicity profile in the context of both cellular and humoral immunity against the major outer membrane protein (MOMP) of Chlamydia trachomatis. We tested both liposomal and emulsion based CAFs with solid and fluid phase lipids, with or without the TLR agonists R848 and 3M-052, for in vitro transfection efficiency and cytotoxicity. We then optimized the RNA/delivery system ratio for in vivo delivery using saRNA coding for firefly luciferase (fLuc) as a reporter protein in vivo. We observed that while the fluid phase liposome formulations showed the highest in vitro transfection efficiency, the fluid and solid phase liposomes had equivalent luciferase expression in vivo. Incorporation of R848 or 3M-052 into the formulation was not observed to affect the delivery efficiency of saRNA either in vitro or in vivo. MOMP-encoding saRNA complexed with CAFs resulted in both MOMP-specific cellular and humoral immunity, and while there was a slight enhancement of IFN-γ+ T-cell responses when R848 was incorporated into the formulation, the self-adjuvanting effects of RNA appeared to dominate the immune response. These studies establish that CAFs are efficient delivery vehicles for saRNA both for in vitro transfections and in vivo immunogenicity and generate cellular and humoral responses that are proportionate to protein expression."},"31083495":{"title":"Rotavirus VP6 as an Adjuvant for Bivalent Norovirus Vaccine Produced in Nicotiana benthamiana.","abstract":"Rotaviruses (RVs) and noroviruses (NoVs) are major causes of childhood acute gastroenteritis. During development of a combination vaccine based on NoV virus-like particles (VLP) and RV VP6 produced in baculovirus expression system in insect cells, a dual role of VP6 as a vaccine antigen and an adjuvant for NoV-specific immune responses was discovered. Here the VP6 adjuvant effect on bivalent GI.4 and GII.4-2006a NoV VLPs produced in Nicotiana benthamiana was investigated. BALB/c mice were immunized intradermally with suboptimal (0.3 µg) dose of each NoV VLP alone or combined with 10 µg of VP6, or equal doses of NoV VLPs and VP6 (1 µg/antigen). NoV-specific serum IgG antibodies and their blocking activity were analyzed using vaccine-homologous and heterologous NoV VLPs. Immunization with 0.3 µg NoV VLPs alone was insufficient to induce NoV-specific immune responses, but with co-administration of 10 µg of VP6, antibodies against vaccine-derived and heterologous NoV genotypes were generated. Furthermore, corresponding adjuvant effect of VP6 was observed with 1 µg dose. Efficient uptake and presentation of VP6 by dendritic cells was demonstrated in vitro. These results show that adjuvant effect of VP6 on bivalent NoV VLP vaccine is independent of the cell source used for vaccine production."},"31105688":{"title":"Envelope-Specific Recognition Patterns of HIV Vaccine-Induced IgG Antibodies Are Linked to Immunogen Structure and Sequence.","abstract":"Background: A better understanding of the parameters influencing vaccine-induced IgG recognition of individual antigenic regions and their variants within the HIV Envelope protein (Env) can help to improve design of preventive HIV vaccines. Methods: Env-specific IgG responses were mapped in samples of the UKHVC003 Standard Group (UK003SG, n = 11 from UK) and TaMoVac01 (TMV01, n = 17 from Tanzania) HIV vaccine trials. Both trials consisted of three immunizations with DNA, followed by two boosts with recombinant Modified Vaccinia Virus Ankara (MVA), either mediating secretion of gp120 (UK003SG) or the presentation of cell membrane bound gp150 envelopes (TMV01) from infected cells, and an additional two boosts with 5 μg of CN54gp140 protein adjuvanted with glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant (GLA). Env immunogen sequences in UK003SG were solely based on the clade C isolate CN54, whereas in TMV01 these were based on clades A, C, B, and CRF01AE. The peptide microarray included 8 globally representative Env sequences, CN54gp140 and the MVA-encoded Env immunogens from both trials, as well as additional peptide variants for hot spots of immune recognition. Results: After the second MVA boost, UK003SG vaccinees almost exclusively targeted linear, non-glycosylated antigenic regions located in the inter-gp120 interface. In contrast, TMV01 recipients most strongly targeted the V2 region and an immunodominant region in gp41. The V3 region was frequently targeted in both trials, with a higher recognition magnitude for diverse antigenic variants observed in the UK003SG (p < 0.0001). After boosting with CN54gp140/GLA, the overall response magnitude increased with a more comparable recognition pattern of antigenic regions and variants between the two trials. Recognition of most immunodominant regions within gp120 remained significantly stronger in UK003SG, whereas V2-region recognition was not boosted in either group. Conclusions: IgG recognition of linear antigenic Env regions differed between the two trials particularly after the second MVA boost. Structural features of the MVA-encoded immunogens, such as secreted, monomeric gp120 vs. membrane-anchored, functional gp150, and differences in prime-boost immunogen sequence variability most probably contributed to these differences. Prime-boosting with multivalent Env immunogens during TMV01 did not improve variant cross-recognition of immunodominant peptide variants in the V3 region."},"31130946":{"title":"Parenteral Vaccination With a Tuberculosis Subunit Vaccine in Presence of Retinoic Acid Provides Early but Transient Protection to M. Tuberculosis Infection.","abstract":"Most microbes invading through mucosal surfaces cause disease and therefore strategies to induce mucosal immune responses are strongly needed. Vitamin A metabolites, such as retinoic acid (RA), play crucial roles in programming T and B cells to home to mucosal compartments, therefore we evaluated the capacity of RA to elicit mucosal immune responses against tuberculosis (TB) after parenteral vaccination. We found that mice immunized through subcutaneous injections with the TB subunit vaccine (CAF01+H56) in presence of RA show enhanced mucosal H56-specific IgA responses and enhanced Ag-specific CD4+ T lymphocytes homing to the lung as compared with control mice. Immunization with CAF01+H56 in presence of RA resulted in lower bacterial loads in the lungs of mice 14 days after challenge with virulent Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) as compared to mice immunized in the absence of RA or vaccinated with BCG. Higher amounts of IFNγ and IL-17 pro-inflammatory cytokines were found in lung homogenates of mice immunized with CAF01+H56 and RA 24 h after Mtb infection. However, 6 weeks after infection the protection was comparable in vaccinated mice with or without RA even though treatment with RA during immunization is able to better contain the inflammatory response by the host. Furthermore, at later stage of the infection a higher percentage of Mtb specific CD4+PD1+ T lymphocytes were found in the lungs of mice immunized with CAF01+H56 and RA. These data show that an enhanced mucosal immune response is generated during parenteral vaccination in presence of RA. Furthermore, RA treatment contained the bacterial growth at an early stage of the infection and limited the inflammatory response in the lung at later time points."},"31149350":{"title":"The TLR4 agonist adjuvant SLA-SE promotes functional mucosal antibodies against a parenterally delivered ETEC vaccine.","abstract":"Many pathogens establish infection at mucosal surfaces such as the enteric pathogen Enterotoxigenic E. coli (ETEC). Thus, there is a pressing need for effective vaccination strategies that promote protective immunity at mucosal surfaces. Toll-like receptor (TLR) ligands have been extensively developed as vaccine adjuvants to promote systemic immunity, whereas attenuated bacterial toxins including cholera toxin and heat-labile toxin (LT) have initially been developed to promote mucosal immunity. Here we evaluate the ability of the TLR4 agonist second-generation lipid adjuvant formulated in a stable emulsion (SLA-SE) to augment functional mucosal antibodies elicited by intramuscular immunization with a recombinant ETEC vaccine antigen. We find that, in mice, parenterally delivered SLA-SE is at least as effective as the double-mutant LT (LTR192G/L211A, dmLT) adjuvant in promoting functional antibodies and eliciting intestinal IgA responses to the vaccine antigen. In addition, SLA-SE enhanced both the IgG2a response in the mucosa and serum, and the production of LT neutralizing serum antibodies elicited by dmLT four to eightfold. These results reveal unexpected mucosal adjuvant properties of this TLR4 agonist adjuvant when delivered intramuscularly. This may have a substantial impact on the development of vaccines against enteric and other mucosal pathogens."},"31174937":{"title":"Glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant enhances immune response to Ebola virus-like particle vaccine in mice.","abstract":"The identification of adjuvants that promote lasting antigen-specific immunity and augment vaccine efficacy are integral to the development of new protein-based vaccines. The Ebola virus-like particle (VLP) vaccine expressing Ebola virus glycoprotein (GP) and matrix protein (VP40) was used in this study to evaluate the ability of TLR4 agonist glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant (GLA) formulated in a stable emulsion (SE) to enhance immunogenicity and promote durable protection against mouse-adapted Ebola virus (ma-EBOV). Antibody responses and Ebola-specific T cell responses were evaluated post vaccination. Survival analysis after lethal ma-EBOV challenge was performed 4 weeks and 22 weeks following final vaccination. GLA-SE enhanced EBOV-specific immunity and resulted in long-term protection against challenge with ma-EBOV infection in a mouse model. Specifically, GLA-SE elicited Th1-skewed antibodies and promoted the generation of EBOV GP-specific polyfunctional T cells. These results provide further support for the utility of TLR4 activating GLA-SE-adjuvanted vaccines."},"31214204":{"title":"Silencing SOCS1 via Liposome-Packed siRNA Sustains TLR4-Ligand Adjuvant.","abstract":"Infectious diseases remain one of the leading causes of death worldwide. Vaccination is a powerful instrument to avert a variety of those by inducing a pathogen-specific immune response and ensure a long-lasting protection against the respective infection. Nevertheless, due to increasing numbers of immunocompromised patients and emergence of more aggressive pathogens existing vaccination techniques are limited. In our study we investigated a new strategy to strengthen vaccine adjuvant in order to increase immunity against infectious diseases. The strategy is based on an amplification of Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) -induced activation of antigen-presenting cells (APCs) by turning off a powerful endogenous inhibitor of APC-activation. TLR4 signaling induces the release of cytokines that bind autocrine and paracrine to receptors, activating the Janus kinase (JAK) 2/signal transducers and activators of transcription (STAT) 3 cascade. Subsequently, STAT3 induces expression of suppressor of cytokine signaling (SOCS) 1 that terminates the inflammatory response. In the approach, TLR4-adjuvant monophosphoryl lipid A (MPLA)-stimulated monocyte-activation is reinforced and sustained by silencing SOCS1 via lipid nanoparticle-enclosed siRNA (L-siRNA). L-siRNA is transported into primary cells without any toxic side effects and protected from early degradation. Through lipid core-embedded functional groups the lipid particle escapes from endosomes and releases the siRNA when translocated into the cytoplasm. SOCS1 is potently silenced, and SOCS1-mediated termination of NFκB signaling is abrogated. Consequently, the MPLA-stimulated activation of APCs, monitored by release of pro-inflammatory cytokines such as IL-6, TNFα, and IL-1β, upregulation of MHC class II molecules and costimulatory CD80/CD86 is strongly enhanced and prolonged. SOCS1-silenced APCs, pulsed with liposomal tetanus light chain toxin (TeTxLC) antigen, activate autologous T cells much more intensively than SOCS1-expressing cells. Importantly, expansion of cocultured CD4+ as well as CD8+ T cells is remarkably enhanced. Furthermore, our results point toward a broad T helper cell response as TH1 typical as well as TH2 characteristic cytokines are elevated. Taken together, this study in the human system comprises a translational potential to develop more effective vaccines against infectious diseases by inhibition of the endogenous negative-feedback loop in APCs."},"31244959":{"title":"A versatile supramolecular nanoadjuvant that activates NF-κB for cancer immunotherapy.","abstract":"Although powerful adjuvants hold promise of vaccines for cancer immunotherapy, cumbersome preparation processes, elusive mechanisms and failure to induce T cell responses have largely limited their clinical translation. Due to their ease of synthesis, good biocompatibility and designable bioactivity, peptide derivatives-based supramolecular nanomaterials have attracted increasing interest in improving the immunogenicity of cancer vaccines. Methods: Herein, we synthesized an NF-κB-activating supramolecular nanoadjuvant (3DSNA) that is prepared by pH-triggering self-assembly of a positively charged D-configurational peptide derivative. The immunostimulatory activity of 3DNSA was explored in vitro and in vivo. Results: 3DSNA can strongly absorb the model antigen (ovalbumin, OVA) through electrostatic interaction. Then, 3DSNA promotes ingestion and cross-presentation of OVA, upregulation of costimulatory factors (CD80 and CD86) and secretion of proinflammatory cytokines (IL-6 and IL-12) by dendritic cells (DCs), accompanied by activation of the innate immune response (NF-κB signaling), resulting in long-term antigen-specific memory and effector CD8+ T cells response. When compared with conventional aluminum hydroxide adjuvant and the corresponding L-configurational supramolecular nanoadjuvant (3LSNA), 3DSNA-adjuvanted OVA (3DSNA+OVA) significantly prevents oncogenesis in naïve mice with a complete response rate of 60 %, restrains the tumor growth and prolongs the survival of melanoma-bearing mice. Conclusion: These findings demonstrate that 3DSNA is a promising neo-adjuvant that enables various vaccines to be therapeutic for many important diseases including cancer."},"31276378":{"title":"Conjugation of a Small-Molecule TLR7 Agonist to Silica Nanoshells Enhances Adjuvant Activity.","abstract":"Stimulation of Toll-like receptors (TLRs) and/or NOD-like receptors on immune cells initiates and directs immune responses that are essential for vaccine adjuvants. The small-molecule TLR7 agonist, imiquimod, has been approved by the FDA as an immune response modifier but is limited to topical application due to its poor pharmacokinetics that causes undesired adverse effects. Nanoparticles are increasingly used with innate immune stimulators to mitigate side effects and enhance adjuvant efficacy. In this study, a potent small-molecule TLR7 agonist, 2-methoxyethoxy-8-oxo-9-(4-carboxybenzyl)adenine (1V209), was conjugated to hollow silica nanoshells (NS). Proinflammatory cytokine (IL-6, IL-12) release by mouse bone-marrow-derived dendritic cells and human peripheral blood mononuclear cells revealed that the potency of silica nanoshells-TLR7 conjugates (NS-TLR) depends on nanoshell size and ligand coating density. Silica nanoshells of 100 nm diameter coated with a minimum of ∼6000 1V209 ligands/particle displayed 3-fold higher potency with no observed cytotoxicity when compared to an unconjugated TLR7 agonist. NS-TLR activated the TLR7-signaling pathway, triggered caspase activity, and stimulated IL-1β release, while neither unconjugated TLR7 ligands nor silica shells alone produced IL-1β. An in vivo murine immunization study, using the model antigen ovalbumin, demonstrated that NS-TLR increased antigen-specific IgG antibody induction by 1000× with a Th1-biased immune response, compared to unconjugated TLR7 agonists. The results show that the TLR7 ligand conjugated to silica nanoshells is capable of activating an inflammasome pathway to enhance both innate immune-stimulatory and adjuvant potencies of the TLR7 agonist, thereby broadening applications of innate immune stimulators."},"31293651":{"title":"Immunopotentiator Aikejia improves the therapeutic efficacy of PD-1/PD-L1 immunosuppressive pathway in CT26.WT cancer cell.","abstract":"Tumors can escape immunosurveillance through immunocheckpoint such as the PD-1/PD-L1 pathway. Aikejia comes from Nocardia rubra cell-wall skeleton and can increase the number of inflammatory factors and immune cells. In this work, we showed that the levels of PD-L1 increase in CT26.WT xenograft after subcutaneous injection of Aikejia in mice, but Aikejia did not induce the expression of PD-L1 in vitro. When we treated the mice with Aikejia and blocked PD-1/PD-L1 pathway in vivo at the same time, the CT26.WT xenografts were significantly inhibited or eliminated, which was better than single treatment alone. Our results suggested that Aikejia may be an effective adjuvant for PD-1/PD-L1 immunotherapy."},"31298809":{"title":"Listeriolysin O immunogenetic adjuvant enhanced potency of hepatitis C virus NS3 DNA vaccine.","abstract":"Hepatitis C virus (HCV) is a major health problem all over the world. Among HCV proteins, nonstructural protein 3 (NS3) is one of the most promising target for anti-HCV therapy and a candidate for vaccine design. DNA vaccine is an efficient approach to stimulate antigen-specific immunity but the main problem with that is less immunogenic efficiency in comparison with traditional vaccines. Several approaches have been applied to enhance the immunogenicity of DNA. Recently, bacteria-derived substances are considered as one of the most attractive adjuvants for vaccines, which among them, Listeriolysin O (LLO) of Listeria monocytogenes is a toxin with an extremely immunogenic feature. We investigated detoxified form of LLO gene as genetic adjuvant to modulate NS3 DNA vaccine potency. Immunogenic truncated NS3 gene sequence of HCV (1095-1380aa) and detoxified LLO gene region (5-441aa) were amplified by PCR and cloned into the pcDNA3.1 plasmid separately. The expression of recombinant proteins (pc-NS3, pLLO) was confirmed in HEK293T cell line by western blotting. BALB/c mice models received three doses of different formula of plasmids in two-week intervals and two weeks after the final immunization, the immune responses were evaluated by specific total antibody level, lymphocyte proliferation, cytotoxicity, and cytokine levels assays. To evaluate in vivo cytotoxic activity, tumor challenge was performed. The recombinant plasmids were successfully expressed in mammalian cell line, and coadministration of pc-NS3 with pLLO induced the highest titer of total IgG against NS3 antigen compared with other controls. Determination of IgG subclasses confirmed the efficient increase in mixed responses with Th1 dominancy. Furthermore, significant levels of cytokines (p < .05) and lymphocyte proliferation responses (p < .05) indicated the superiority of this regimen. The findings may have important implication for LLO gene application as genetic adjuvant in immune response against HCV."},"31300280":{"title":"Randomized controlled trial demonstrating the benefits of delta inulin adjuvanted immunotherapy in patients with bee venom allergy.","abstract":"Allergic reactions to Hymenoptera insect stings remain a major global clinical problem. Although effective, parenteral desensitization regimens require use of costly venom extracts and require frequent visits over extended periods of time. Adjuvants are commonly used to enhance the efficacy of infectious disease vaccines, and this study asked whether Advax (Vaxine Pty Ltd, Adelaide, Australia), a novel noninflammatory polysaccharide adjuvant, might provide similar benefits for allergy desensitization. A randomized, controlled phase 1/2 trial was undertaken in 27 adults with a history of rapid-onset systemic allergic reactions to honeybee stings and positive specific IgE levels to evaluate the safety and efficacy of honeybee venom immunotherapy (HBVIT) combined with Advax adjuvant. Venom immunotherapy (VIT) was administered monthly for 30 months after achievement of maintenance doses. Advax-adjuvanted HBVIT was well tolerated. Around week 14 of VIT, specific IgG4 responses peaked in both groups but increased earlier, peaked higher, and were better maintained through the end of the study in the Advax-adjuvanted arm. Several different patterns of serologic response to VIT were seen; some subjects had a dominant IgG4 response, some had a combined IgG4 and IgG1 response, and some had an exclusively IgG1 response. In some subjects specific IgE levels increased during the induction phase and then decreased, whereas in others specific IgE levels progressively decreased from the start of VIT. Advax adjuvant favorably enhanced the immunogenicity of HBVIT, with an early and prolonged switch to specific IgG4 production. The ability of Advax adjuvant to enhance VIT efficacy warrants further study."},"31361176":{"title":"ZRSR2 mutation in a child with refractory macrocytic anemia and Down Syndrome.","abstract":"Here we report a case of refractory macrocytic anemia with a spliceosomal point mutation involving the ZRSR2 gene in a child with Down syndrome (DS). Such mutations have been shown to cause refractory macrocytic anemia and myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) in elderly individuals. We report the hematological indices of a child with DS and a ZRSR2 spliceosomal mutation. DS is known to produce macrocytic anemia but does not lead to transfusion dependence. In this case, the ZRSR2 mutation was the likely implicating factor for severe transfusion-dependent anemia in a child with DS. The clinical implication of a ZRSR2 mutation in a child with DS has not been previously described and warrants close surveillance to detect potential insidious transformation to MDS."},"31362695":{"title":"Identification of adjuvants for clinical trials performed with Plasmodium falciparum AMA1 in rabbits.","abstract":"In this study, seven adjuvants were compared for use with Plasmodium falciparum DiCo-Apical Membrane Antigen 1 (Pf-DiCo-AMA1), with the aim to identify an ideal adjuvant which yields high antibody titres and potentially broadens the responses in clinical trials. The following adjuvant formulations were evaluated: SE, SE-GLA, Liposomes, Liposomes-GLA, CoVaccine HT™, ImSaVac-P and ImSaVac-P o/w. The study was performed in rabbits, which were immunized with FVO-AMA1 in combination with one of the seven adjuvants. Antibody levels (humoral responses) and functional activity of the antibodies induced against malaria vaccine candidate AMA1 were evaluated. Thus, in this study the ideal adjuvant is expected to induce high functional antibody levels, a long-lived response, and a broad cross-strain activity. AMA1 formulated in all adjuvants was immunogenic. However, the magnitude of the immune responses differed between the seven adjuvants. The highest IgG levels were observed for the CoVaccine HT™ group, this was statistically significant for all four AMA1 variants versus all other adjuvant groups. No differences were observed in the breadth of the humoral response, i.e., increased recognition of AMA1 variants. Also, Growth Inhibition Activity (GIA) for both Plasmodium falciparum strains (FCR3 - homologous to FVO AMA1 protein and NF54 - heterologous to FVO AMA1 protein) were significantly higher in the CoVaccine HT™ group as compared to the other adjuvant groups. In brief, all seven vaccine - adjuvant formulations were immunogenic. The magnitude of the immune responses differed between the seven adjuvants. No statistically significant differences were observed in the breadth of the humoral response, nor in longevity of the response. Nevertheless, AMA1 formulated in CoVaccine HT™ appeared as the best adjuvant for use in clinical trials."},"31409607":{"title":"Irreversible Electroporation Combined with Checkpoint Blockade and TLR7 Stimulation Induces Antitumor Immunity in a Murine Pancreatic Cancer Model.","abstract":"Irreversible electroporation (IRE) is a nonthermal ablation technique that is used clinically in selected patients with locally advanced pancreatic cancer, but most patients develop recurrent distant metastatic disease. We hypothesize that IRE can induce an in situ vaccination effect by releasing tumor neoantigens in an inflammatory context. Using an immunocompetent mouse model, we demonstrated that IRE alone produced complete regression of subcutaneous tumors in approximately 20% to 30% of mice. IRE was not effective in immunodeficient mice. Mice with complete response to IRE demonstrated prophylactic immunity and remained tumor free when rechallenged with secondary tumors on the contralateral flank. CD8+ T cells from IRE-responsive mice were reactive against peptides representing model-inherent alloantigens and conferred protection against tumor challenge when adoptively transferred into immunocompromised, tumor-naïve mice. Combining IRE with intratumoral Toll-like receptor-7 (TLR7) agonist (1V270) and systemic anti-programmed death-1 receptor (PD)-1 checkpoint blockade resulted in improved treatment responses. This combination also resulted in elimination of untreated concomitant distant tumors (abscopal effects), an effect not seen with IRE alone. These results suggest that the systemic antitumor immune response triggered by IRE can be enhanced by stimulating the innate immune system with a TLR7 agonist and the adaptive immune system with anti-PD-1 checkpoint blockade simultaneously. Combinatorial approaches such as this may help overcome the immunosuppressive pancreatic cancer microenvironment."},"31427012":{"title":"Polyethylenimine-coated PLGA nanoparticles-encapsulated Angelica sinensis polysaccharide as an adjuvant to enhance immune responses.","abstract":"Nanoparticle delivery systems have been widely investigated as new vaccines strategy to enhance the immune responses to antigens against infectious diseases. The positively charged nanoparticles could efficiently improve the immune responses due to targeting and activating the antigen-presenting cells. In this study, the immunopotentiator Angelica sinensis polysaccharide (ASP) was encapsulated into Poly (lactic-co-glycolic acid) (PLGA) nanoparticles, and the polyethylenimine, one of the cationic polymers, was used to coat nanoparticles to develop a new nanoparticle delivery system (ASP-PLGA-PEI) with positively charged. The ASP-PLGA-PEI nanoparticles significantly activated macrophages, and promoted the expression of the MHCII and CD86 and the production of IL-1β and IL-12p70 cytokines of macrophages. Furthermore, the antigen adsorbed on the surface of the ASP-PLGA-PEI nanoparticles enhanced the antigen uptake by macrophages. Moreover, the mice immunized with PCV2 antigen adsorbed ASP-PLGA-PEI nanoparticles significantly enhanced PCV2-specific IgG immune response and the levels of cytokines, induced a mixed Th1/Th2 immune response with Th1 bias compared with other groups. These findings demonstrate that the positively charged nanoparticles (ASP-PLGA-PEI) have the potential to serve as an effective vaccine delivery and adjuvant system to induce vigorous and long-term immune responses."},"31427449":{"title":"Intradermal or Sublingual Delivery and Heat-Labile Enterotoxin Proteins Shape Immunologic Responses to a CFA/I Fimbria-Derived Subunit Antigen Vaccine against Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli.","abstract":"Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli (ETEC) is a major cause of infectious diarrhea in children, travelers, and deployed military personnel. As such, development of a vaccine would be advantageous for public health. One strategy is to use subunits of colonization factors combined with antigen/adjuvant toxoids as an ETEC vaccine. Here, we investigated the intradermal (i.d.) or sublingual (s.l.) delivery of CFA/I fimbrial antigens, including CfaEB and a CfaE-heat-labile toxin B subunit (LTB) chimera admixed with double mutant heat-labile toxin (LT) LT-R192G/L211A (dmLT). In addition, we compared dmLT with other LT proteins to better understand the generation of adjuvanted fimbrial and toxoid immunity as well as the influence on any local skin reactogenicity. We demonstrate that immunization with dmLT admixed with CfaEB induces robust serum and fecal antibody responses to CFA/I fimbriae and LT but that i.d. formulations are not optimal for s.l. delivery. Improved s.l. vaccination outcomes were observed when higher doses of dmLT (1 to 5 μg) were admixed with CfaEB or, even better, when a CfaE-LTB chimera antigen was used instead. Serum anti-CFA/I total antibodies, detected by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, were the best predictor of functional antibodies, based on the inhibition of red blood cell agglutination by ETEC. Immunization with other LT proteins or formulations with altered B-subunit binding during i.d. immunization (e.g., by addition of 5% lactose, LTA1, or LT-G33D) minimally altered the development of antibody responses and cytokine recall responses but reduced skin reactogenicity at the injection site. These results reveal how formulations and delivery parameters shape the adaptive immune responses to a toxoid and fimbria-derived subunit vaccine against ETEC."},"31465981":{"title":"Vaccine adjuvant activity of emulsified oils from species of the Pinaceae family.","abstract":"Next to aluminum salts, squalene nanoemulsions comprise the most widely employed class of adjuvants in approved vaccines. Despite their importance, the mechanisms of action of squalene nanoemulsions are not completely understood, nor are the structure/function requirements of the oil composition. In this study, we build on previous work that compared the adjuvant properties of nanoemulsions made with different classes of oil structures to squalene nanoemulsion. Here, we introduce nanoemulsions made with polyprenols derived from species of the Pinaceae family as novel vaccine adjuvant compositions. In contrast with long-chain triglycerides that do not efficiently enhance an immune response, both polyprenols and squalene are comprised of multimeric isoprene units, which may represent an important structural property of oils in nanoemulsions with adjuvant properties. Oils derived from species of the Pinaceae family were formulated in nanoemulsions, with or without a synthetic Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) ligand, and characterized regarding physicochemical and biological activity properties in comparison to squalene nanoemulsions. Oils were extracted from species of the Pinaceae family and used to prepare oil-in-water nanoemulsions by microfluidization. Emulsion droplet diameter stability was characterized by dynamic light scattering. Nanoemulsions were evaluated for in vitro biological activity using human whole blood, and in vivo biological activity in mouse, pig, and ferret models when combined with pandemic influenza vaccine antigens. Nanoemulsions comprised of Pinaceae-derived polyprenol oils demonstrated long-term physical stability, stimulated cytokine production from human cells in vitro, and promoted antigen-specific immune responses in various animal models, particularly when formulated with the TLR4 ligand glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant (GLA). Pinaceae-derived nanoemulsions are compatible with inclusion of a synthetic TLR4 ligand and promote antigen-specific immune responses to pandemic influenza antigens in mouse, pig, and ferret models."},"31482013":{"title":"Interrogation of a live-attenuated enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli vaccine highlights features unique to wild-type infection.","abstract":"Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli (ETEC) infections are a common cause of severe diarrheal illness in low- and middle-income countries. The live-attenuated ACE527 ETEC vaccine, adjuvanted with double mutant heat-labile toxin (dmLT), affords clear but partial protection against ETEC challenge in human volunteers. Comparatively, initial wild-type ETEC challenge completely protects against severe diarrhea on homologous re-challenge. To investigate determinants of protection, vaccine antigen content was compared to wild-type ETEC, and proteome microarrays were used to assess immune responses following vaccination and ETEC challenge. Although molecular interrogation of the vaccine confirmed expression of targeted canonical antigens, relative to wild-type ETEC, vaccine strains were deficient in production of flagellar antigens, immotile, and lacked production of the EtpA adhesin. Similarly, vaccination ± dmLT elicited responses to targeted canonical antigens, but relative to wild-type challenge, vaccine responses to some potentially protective non-canonical antigens including EtpA and the YghJ metalloprotease were diminished or absent. These studies highlight important differences in vaccine and wild-type ETEC antigen content and call attention to distinct immunologic signatures that could inform investigation of correlates of protection, and guide vaccine antigen selection for these pathogens of global importance."},"31495593":{"title":"A nanoemulsion-adjuvanted intranasal H5N1 influenza vaccine protects ferrets against homologous and heterologous H5N1 lethal challenge.","abstract":"Flu vaccines administered intramuscularly (IM) have shown seasonally fluctuating efficacy, 20-60%, throughout the last 15 years. We formulated a recombinant H5 (rH5) in our Nanovax® (NE01) (rH5/NE01) adjuvant for intranasal vaccination in ferrets. We evaluated the regimen, one vs two immunization, and cross clade protection a ferret challenge model. Plant derived recombinant H5 (rH5) antigen was formulated with NE01 and administered intranasally to ferrets. Immunogenicity (IgG), hemagglutination inhibition (HI), and protection against lethal challenge, were measured following one or two immunizations. Protection against homologous (strain A/Indo) and heterologous (strain A/Vn) was evaluated in ferrets following two immunizations. IN immunization with rH5/NE01 induced significant IgG levels after one and two immunizations. One vaccination did not induce any HI while low HI was measured after two immunizations. Homologous challenge with H5N1 A/ Indonesia showed 100% survival, with minimal weight loss in animals vaccinated twice compared to the unvaccinated controls. Analysis of nasal wash from these challenged ferrets vaccinated twice showed decreased viral shedding compared to unvaccinated controls. Interestingly, animals that received one vaccination showed 88% survival with moderate weight loss. Cross clade protection was evaluated using an increased antigen dose (45 µg rH5). Vaccinated animals demonstrated increased IgG and HAI antibody responses. Both homologous (A/Indo) and heterologous challenge (A/Vietnam) following two immunizations showed 100% survival with no loss of body weight. However viral clearance was more rapid against the homologous (day 3) compared to the heterologous (day 5) post challenge. Intranasal administration of NE01 adjuvant-formulated rH5 vaccine elicited systemic and probably mucosal immunity that conferred protection against lethal challenge with homologous or heterologous viral strains. It also enhanced viral clearance with decreased shedding. These outcomes strongly suggest that intranasal immunization using NE01 against flu infections warrants clinical testing."},"31515141":{"title":"A phase 1 study of the safety, reactogenicity, and immunogenicity of a Schistosoma mansoni vaccine with or without glucopyranosyl lipid A aqueous formulation (GLA-AF) in healthy adults from a non-endemic area.","abstract":"Schistosomiasis caused by Schistosoma mansoni (Sm) is a chronic, debilitating and potentially deadly neglected tropical disease. The licensure of a vaccine to prevent schistosomiasis would represent a major breakthrough in public health. The safety and immunogenicity of a candidate Sm vaccine were assessed in this phase I, double-blind, dose-escalation trial. Seventy-two healthy Sm-naïve 18-50 year olds were randomized to receive 3 doses ∼ 8 weeks apart of saline placebo, or 10 µg, 30 µg, or 100 µg of recombinant Sm-Tetraspanin-2 vaccine formulated on aluminum hydroxide adjuvant (Sm-TSP-2/Al) with or without 5 µg of glucopyranosyl lipid A aqueous formulation (GLA-AF). Clinical and serologic responses were assessed for 1 year after dose 3. Vaccines were safe and well-tolerated. The most common reactions were injection site tenderness and pain, and headache and fatigue. Tenderness and pain were more frequent in groups receiving vaccine with GLA-AF than placebo (p = 0.0036 and p = 0.0014, respectively). Injection site reactions among those given Sm-TSP-2/Al with GLA-AF lasted 1.22 and 1.33 days longer than those receiving Sm-TSP-2/Al without GLA-AF or placebo (p < 0.001 for both). Dose- and adjuvant-related increases in serum IgG against Sm-TSP-2 were observed. Peak IgG levels occurred 14 days after dose 3. Seroresponse frequencies were low among recipients of Sm-TSP-2/Al without GLA-AF, but higher among subjects receiving 30 µg or 100 µg of Sm-TSP-2/Al with GLA-AF. More seroresponses were observed among those given 30 µg or 100 µg of Sm-TSP-2/Al with GLA-AF compared to placebo (p = 0.023 and p < 0.001, respectively). Seroresponse frequencies were 0%, 30%, 50%, and 89%, respectively, among those given placebo, or 10 µg, 30 µg or 100 µg of Sm-TSP-2/Al with GLA-AF, suggesting a dose-response relationship for Sm-TSP-2/Al with GLA-AF (p = 0.0001). Sm-TSP-2/Al with or without GLA-AF was safe and well tolerated in a Sm-naïve population. A vaccine like the one under development may represent our best hope to eliminating this neglected tropical disease."},"31515143":{"title":"Intranasal nanoemulsion-adjuvanted HSV-2 subunit vaccine is effective as a prophylactic and therapeutic vaccine using the guinea pig model of genital herpes.","abstract":"Genital herpes is a sexually transmitted disease representing a major global health concern. Currently, there is no approved vaccine and existing antiviral therapies exhibit limited efficacy. Herein, we describe an intranasal (IN) vaccine comprised of HSV-2 surface glycoproteins gD2 and gB2 formulated in a nanoemulsion adjuvant (NE01-gD2/gB2). Using the HSV-2 genital herpes guinea pig model, we demonstrate that IN NE01-gD2/gB2 induces higher levels of neutralizing antibody compared to a monovalent IN NE01-gD2 vaccine, but less than an intramuscular (IM) Alum/MPL-gD2 vaccine. Following intravaginal (IVag) challenge with HSV-2, the group immunized with IN NE01-gD2/gB2 exhibited significantly reduced acute and recurrent disease scores compared to placebo recipients. Significantly, latent virus was only detected in the dorsal root ganglia of 1 of 12 IN NE01-gD2/gB2-vaccinated animals compared to 11 of 12 placebo recipient. In the therapeutic model, IN NE01-gD2/gB2 immunized guinea pigs exhibited a significant reduction in the recurrent lesions scores (64%, p < 0.01), number of animal days with disease (64%, p < 0.01), number of animals with viral shedding (50%, p < 0.04) and reduction in virus positive vaginal swabs (56%, p < 0.04), These data suggests that the treatment may be effective in treating chronic disease and minimizing virus transmission. These results warrant advancing the development of IN NE01-gD2/gB2 as both a prophylactic and therapeutic vaccine against HSV-2."},"31521953":{"title":"Antibody production and pharmacokinetics of METH in rats following vaccination with the METH vaccine, IXT-v100, adjuvanted with GLA-SE.","abstract":"Methamphetamine use disorder continues to be inadequately treated, but improvements are being made in the field of immunotherapeutics, including vaccines, which could provide new options for treatment. Cocaine and nicotine vaccines have been tested clinically, but have yet to elicit the necessary antibody concentrations required to be effective. Methamphetamine vaccines have been tested in multiple nonclinical models and appear promising. Improved adjuvants have the potential to further stimulate the immune system to reach effective levels of antibodies. Previously, the methamphetamine vaccine IXT-v100 was administered with GLA-SE, a toll-like receptor 4 agonist, in mice to produce higher levels of antibodies than when it was administered with two other widely used adjuvants, Alhydrogel and Sigma Adjuvant System. The purpose of this research was to evaluate IXT-v100, given in combination with the adjuvant GLA-SE, to determine its efficacy in antagonizing methamphetamine disposition in a rat pharmacokinetic study. Additional rat studies were conducted to compare the ability of IXT-v100 manufactured with greater hapten densities to elicit higher antibody levels. As expected based on prior studies with anti-methamphetamine monoclonal antibodies, the antibodies resulting from vaccination with IXT-v100 altered methamphetamine pharmacokinetics by increasing serum concentrations and extending the half-life. Furthermore, intentional variations in the ratio of components during manufacturing led to production of vaccines with higher hapten densities. The higher hapten densities resulted in production of antibodies that maintained the ability to bind methamphetamine with high affinity. The results support continued development of IXT-v100 for the treatment of methamphetamine use disorder."},"31539263":{"title":"Design of Gadoteridol-Loaded Cationic Liposomal Adjuvant CAF01 for MRI of Lung Deposition of Intrapulmonary Administered Particles.","abstract":"Designing effective and safe tuberculosis (TB) subunit vaccines for inhalation requires identification of appropriate antigens and adjuvants and definition of the specific areas to target in the lungs. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) enables high spatial resolution, but real-time anatomical and functional MRI of lungs is challenging. Here, we describe the design of a novel gadoteridol-loaded cationic adjuvant formulation 01 (CAF01) for MRI-guided vaccine delivery of the clinically tested TB subunit vaccine candidate H56/CAF01. Gadoteridol-loaded CAF01 liposomes were engineered by using a quality-by-design approach to (i) increase the mechanistic understanding of formulation factors governing the loading of gadoteridol and (ii) maximize the loading of gadoteridol in CAF01, which was confirmed by cryotransmission electron microscopy. The encapsulation efficiency and loading of gadoteridol were highly dependent on the buffer pH due to strong attractive electrostatic interactions between gadoteridol and the cationic lipid component. Optimal gadoteridol loading of CAF01 liposomes showed good in vivo stability and safety upon intrapulmonary administration into mice while generating 1.5-fold MRI signal enhancement associated with approximately 30% T1 relaxation change. This formulation principle and imaging approach can potentially be used for other mucosal nanoparticle-based formulations, species, and lung pathologies, which can readily be translated for clinical use."},"31591662":{"title":"Influenza A(H5N1) Virus Subunit Vaccine Administered with CaPNP Adjuvant Induce High Virus Neutralization Antibody Titers in Mice.","abstract":"The highly pathogenic avian influenza H5N1 virus continues to spread globally in domestic poultry with sporadic transmission to humans. The possibility for its rapid transmission to humans raised global fears for the virus to gain capacity for human-to-human transmission to start a future pandemic. Through direct contact with infected poultry, it caused the largest number of reported cases of severe disease and death in humans of any avian influenza strains. For pandemic preparedness, use of safe and effective vaccine adjuvants and delivery systems to improve vaccine efficacy are considered imperative. We previously demonstrated CaPtivate's proprietary CaP nanoparticles (CaPNP) as a potent vaccine adjuvant/delivery system with ability to induce both humoral and cell-mediated immune responses against many viral or bacterial infections. In this study, we investigated the delivery of insect cell culture-derived recombinant hemagglutinin protein (HA) of A/H5N1/Vietnam/1203/2004 virus using CaPNP. We evaluated the vaccine immunogenicity in mice following two intramuscular doses of 3 μg antigen combined with escalating doses of CaPNP. Our data showed CaPNP-adjuvanted HA(H5N1) vaccines eliciting significantly higher IgG, hemagglutination inhibition, and virus neutralization titers compared to non-adjuvanted vaccine. Among the four adjuvant doses that were tested, CaPNP at 0.24% final concentration elicited the highest IgG and neutralizing antibody titers. We also evaluated the inflammatory response to CaPNP following a single intramuscular injection in guinea pigs and showed that CaPNP does not induce any systemic reaction or adverse effects. Current data further support our earlier studies demonstrating CaPNP as a safe and an effective adjuvant for influenza vaccines."},"31610951":{"title":"Evaluation of immunogenicity and protective effect of DNA vaccine encoding surface antigen1 (SAG1) of Toxoplasma gondii and TLR-5 ligand as a genetic adjuvant against acute toxoplasmosis in BALB/c mice.","abstract":"Toxoplasma gondii is an obligate intracellular, protozoan that causes a high incidence of serious zoonotic parasitic disease in humans. In the present study the immune-protective efficacy of a DNA vaccine encoding SAG1 in combination with a gene sequence encoding FliC of Salmonella typhimurium (Toll-like receptor 5 agonist) was evaluated against acute T. gondii infection in mice. Ninety-nine female inbred BALB/c mice were divided into nine groups of 11 mice and were immunized intramuscularly three times at three-week intervals (days 0, 21 and 42) and challenged with virulent T. gondii RH strain 4 weeks later. The immunization of pVAX1-SAG1 administered with pVAX1-fliC in mice indicated specific humoral responses, with higher IgG antibody titers and a mixed IgG1/IgG2a response than in other groups (with a predominance of IgG2a over IgG2b and IgG1). Also, the cellular immune response elicited high levels of IFN-γ and IL-12 cytokines and low levels of IL-4 production compared to traditional adjuvants. Furthermore, the mice vaccinated with pVAX1-SAG1+pVAX1-fliC survived for slightly longer after the last immunization and challenge with the T. gondii. This investigation indicated that cocktail DNA vaccine encoded SAG1 gene of T. gondii and FliC can protect against acute toxoplasmosis."},"31629891":{"title":"Active immunization with tau epitope in a mouse model of tauopathy induced strong antibody response together with improvement in short memory and pSer396-tau pathology.","abstract":"Abnormal tau hyperphosphorylation and its aggregation into neurofibrillary tangles are a hallmark of tauopathies, neurodegenerative disorders that include Alzheimer's disease (AD). Active and passive Tau-immunotherapy has been proposed as a therapeutic approach to AD with mixed results. One of the limitations of active immunotherapy may be associated with the mediocre immunogenicity of vaccines that are not inducing therapeutically potent titers of antibodies. The aim of this study was to test the efficacy of an anti-tau vaccine, AV-1980R/A composed of N terminal peptide of this molecule fused with an immunogenic MultiTEP platform and formulated in a strong adjuvant, AdvaxCpG in a Tg4510 mouse model of tauopathy. Experimental mice were immunized with AV-1980R/A and a control group of mice were injected with adjuvant only. Nontransgenic and tetracycline transactivator (tTA) transgenic littermates were included as baseline controls to contrast with the tau phenotype. Active immunization with AV-1980R/A induced very strong anti-tau humoral immune responses in both nontransgenic and transgenic mice with evidence of IgG in brains of AV-1980R/A vaccinated mice. These experimental animals displayed an improvement in short-term memory during a novel object recognition test. However, impairments in other behavioral tasks were not prevented by AV-1980R/A vaccinations. At the same time, high titers of anti-tau antibodies reduced hyperphosphorylated pSer396 tau but did not lower the level of other phosphorylated tau species in the brains of AV-1980R/A vaccinated mice. These data indicate that active immunotherapy with an N-terminal Tau epitope was only partially effective in improving cognition and reducing pathology in the stringent Tg4510 mouse model of tauopathy."},"31641151":{"title":"LTA1 is a safe, intranasal enterotoxin-based adjuvant that improves vaccine protection against influenza in young, old and B-cell-depleted (μMT) mice.","abstract":"Enterotoxin-based adjuvants including cholera toxin and heat-labile toxin (LT) are powerful manipulators of mucosal immunity; however, past clinical trials identified unacceptable neurological toxicity when LT or mutant AB5 adjuvant proteins were added to intranasal vaccines. Here, we examined the isolated enzymatic A1 domain of LT (LTA1) for intranasal safety and efficacy in combination with influenza (flu) vaccination. LTA1-treated mice exhibited no neurotoxicity, as measured by olfactory system testing and H&E staining of nasal tissue in contrast with cholera toxin. In vaccination studies, intranasal LTA1 enhanced immune responses to inactivated virus antigen and subsequent protection against H1N1 flu challenge in mice (8-week or 24-months). In addition, lung H1N1 viral titers post-challenge correlated to serum antibody responses; however, enhanced protection was also observed in μMT mice lacking B-cells while activation and recruitment of CD4 T-cells into the lung was apparent. Thus, we report that LTA1 protein is a novel, safe and effective enterotoxin adjuvant that improves protection of an intranasal flu vaccination by a mechanism that does not appear to require B-cells."},"31646077":{"title":"Metformin as an archetype immuno-metabolic adjuvant for cancer immunotherapy.","abstract":"The development of a single immuno-metabolic adjuvant capable of modulating, in the appropriate direction and intensity, the complex antagonistic and symbiotic interplays between tumor cells, immune cells, and the gut microbiota may appear pharmacologically implausible. Metformin might help solve this conundrum and beneficially impact the state of cancer-immune system interactions."},"31657920":{"title":"Vaccine Adjuvants Derivatized from Momordica Saponins I and II.","abstract":"We have derivatized Momordica saponins (MS) I and II through their coupling at C3 glucuronic acid site with dodecylamine. The derivatives show significantly different immunostimulant activity profiles from their respective natural parent saponins. In particular, adjuvant VSA-1 (5), the derivative of MS I, potentiates a significantly higher IgG2a responose than the corresponding natural product. Its IgG1 and IgG2a production is similar to that of GPI-0100, indicating a potential mixed and antigen-specific Th1/Th2 immune response, which is different from the Th2 immunity induced by the natural saponin MS I. In addition, toxicity evaluations show that adjuvant VSA-1 (5) is much less toxic than the widely used natural saponin mixture Quil A. These results prove that derivatizing Momordica saponins can be a viable way for easy access to structurally defined saponin immunostimulants with favorable adjvuant activity and low toxicity."},"31664089":{"title":"A MultiTEP platform-based epitope vaccine targeting the phosphatase activating domain (PAD) of tau: therapeutic efficacy in PS19 mice.","abstract":"Pathological tau correlates well with cognitive impairments in Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients and therefore represents a promising target for immunotherapy. Targeting an appropriate B cell epitope in pathological tau could in theory produce an effective reduction of pathology without disrupting the function of normal native tau. Recent data demonstrate that the N-terminal region of tau (aa 2-18), termed the \"phosphatase activation domain (PAD)\", is hidden within native Tau in a 'paperclip'-like conformation. Conversely, PAD is exposed in pathological tau and plays an essential role in the inhibition of fast axonal transport and tau polymerization. Thus, we hypothesized that anti-tau2-18 antibodies may safely and specifically reduce pathological tau and prevent further aggregation, which in turn would neutralize tau toxicity. Therefore, we evaluated the immunogenicity and therapeutic efficacy of our MultiTEP platform-based vaccine targeting tau2-18 formulated with AdvaxCpG adjuvant (AV-1980R/A) in PS19 tau transgenic mice. The AV-1980R/A induced extremely high antibody responses and the resulting sera recognized neurofibrillary tangles and plaque-associated dystrophic neurites in AD brain sections. In addition, under non-denaturing conditions AV-1980R/A sera preferentially recognized AD-associated tau. Importantly, vaccination also prevented age-related motor and cognitive deficits in PS19 mice and significantly reduced insoluble total and phosphorylated tau species. Taken together, these findings suggest that predominantly targeting misfolded tau with AV-1980R/A could represent an effective strategy for AD immunotherapy."},"31690678":{"title":"Preclinical Efficacy of a Lipooligosaccharide Peptide Mimic Candidate Gonococcal Vaccine.","abstract":"The global spread of multidrug-resistant strains of Neisseria gonorrhoeae constitutes a public health emergency. With limited antibiotic treatment options, there is an urgent need for development of a safe and effective vaccine against gonorrhea. Previously, we constructed a prototype vaccine candidate comprising a peptide mimic (mimitope) of a glycan epitope on gonococcal lipooligosaccharide (LOS), recognized by monoclonal antibody 2C7. The 2C7 epitope is (i) broadly expressed as a gonococcal antigenic target in human infection, (ii) a critical requirement for gonococcal colonization in the experimental setting, and (iii) a virulence determinant that is maintained and expressed by gonococci. Here, we have synthesized to >95% purity through a relatively facile and economical process a tetrapeptide derivative of the mimitope that was cyclized through a nonreducible thioether bond, thereby rendering the compound homogeneous and stable. This vaccine candidate, called TMCP2, when administered at 0, 3, and 6 weeks to BALB/c mice at either 50, 100 or 200 μg/dose in combination with glucopyranosyl lipid A-stable oil-in-water nanoemulsion (GLA-SE; a Toll-like receptor 4 and TH1-promoting adjuvant), elicited bactericidal IgG and reduced colonization levels of gonococci in experimentally infected mice while accelerating clearance by each of two different gonococcal strains. Similarly, a 3-dose biweekly schedule (50 μg TMCP2/dose) was also effective in mice. We have developed a gonococcal vaccine candidate that can be scaled up and produced economically to a high degree of purity. The candidate elicits bactericidal antibodies and is efficacious in a preclinical experimental infection model.IMPORTANCENeisseria gonorrhoeae has become resistant to most antibiotics. The incidence of gonorrhea is also sharply increasing. A safe and effective antigonococcal vaccine is urgently needed. Lipooligosaccharide (LOS), the most abundant outer membrane molecule, is indispensable for gonococcal pathogenesis. A glycan epitope on LOS that is recognized by monoclonal antibody (MAb) 2C7 (called the 2C7 epitope) is expressed almost universally by gonococci in vivo Previously, we identified a peptide mimic (mimitope) of the 2C7 epitope, which when configured as an octamer and used as an immunogen, attenuated colonization of mice by gonococci. Here, a homogenous, stable tetrameric derivative of the mimitope, when combined with a TH1-promoting adjuvant and used as an immunogen, also effectively attenuates gonococcal colonization of mice. This candidate peptide vaccine can be produced economically, an important consideration for gonorrhea, which affects socioeconomically underprivileged populations disproportionately, and represents an important advance in the development of a gonorrhea vaccine."},"31709029":{"title":"Strong dose response after immunotherapy with PQ grass using conjunctival provocation testing.","abstract":"Pollinex Quattro Grass (PQ Grass) is an effective, well-tolerated, short pre-seasonal subcutaneous immunotherapy to treat seasonal allergic rhinoconjunctivitis (SAR) due to grass pollen. In this Phase II study, 4 cumulative doses of PQ Grass and placebo were evaluated to determine its optimal cumulative dose. Patients with grass pollen-induced SAR were randomised to either a cumulative dose of PQ Grass (5100, 14400, 27600 and 35600 SU) or placebo, administered as 6 weekly subcutaneous injections over 31-41 days (EudraCT number 2017-000333-31). Standardized conjunctival provocation tests (CPT) using grass pollen allergen extract were performed at screening, baseline and post-treatment to determine the total symptom score (TSS) assessed approximately 4 weeks after dosing. Three models were pre-defined (Emax, logistic, and linear in log-dose model) to evaluate a dose response relationship. In total, 95.5% of the 447 randomized patients received all 6 injections. A highly statistically significant (p < 0.0001), monotonic dose response was observed for all three pre-specified models. All treatment groups showed a statistically significant decrease from baseline in TSS compared to placebo, with the largest decrease observed after 27600 SU (p < 0.0001). The full course of 6 injections was completed by 95.5% of patients. Treatment-emergent adverse events were similar across PQ Grass groups, and mostly mild and transient in nature. PQ Grass demonstrated a strong curvilinear dose response in TSS following CPT without compromising its safety profile."},"31747745":{"title":"One-Step Self-Assembly of Multifunctional DNA Nanohydrogels: An Enhanced and Harmless Strategy for Guiding Combined Antitumor Therapy.","abstract":"DNA nanostructure-based drug delivery system (DDS) has become an advanced therapeutic strategy for cancer because of its unsurpassed editability, intrinsic biodegradability, and tunable multifunctionality. An intelligent DNA nanosystem integrating targeting, immunostimulation, and chemotherapy was constructed based on unmethylated cytosine-phosphate-guanine oligonucleotides (CpG ODNs) DNA nanohydrogels (CpG-MUC1-hydrogel). By facile one-step self-assembly, the cross-shaped DNAs (C-DNAs) assembled from pH-responsive I-motif sequences and targeted MUC1 aptamer-immunoadjuvant CpG-fused sequences (CpG-MUC1) were integrated into DNA nanohydrogels with controllable size by the hybridization of DNA linkers. Subsequently, DOX was successively intercalated into the base pairs of CpG-MUC1-hydrogel, resulting in CpG-MUC1-hydrogel/Dox that would disassemble and release DOX and CpGs at acidic conditions. After MUC1-mediated internalization, CpG-MUC1-hydrogel/Dox dissociated in the endo/lysosomes and induced favorable apoptosis of tumor cells. Afterward, liberated CpGs triggered vast cytokine secretion from immune cells which elicited potent immune response against malignancy. Notably, CpG-MUC1-hydrogel induced an apoptosis effect on MCF-7 cells via significantly increasing the Bax/Bcl2 ratios and a higher level of tumor necrosis factor (TNF-α) on RAW264.7 cells than naked CpGs. Our results demonstrated that self-assembled CpG-MUC1-hydrogel represented an attractive DDS for precise delivery, potent immunostimulating activity, and considerable combination efficiency with few adverse effects, which is expected to make breakthroughs in clinical translation."},"31757774":{"title":"Safety and immunogenicity of the oral, inactivated, enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli vaccine ETVAX in Bangladeshi children and infants: a double-blind, randomised, placebo-controlled phase 1/2 trial.","abstract":"Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli causes diarrhoea, leading to substantial mortality and morbidity in children, but no specific vaccine exists. This trial tested an oral, inactivated, enterotoxigenic E coli vaccine (ETVAX), which has been previously shown to be safe and highly immuongenic in Swedish and Bangladeshi adults. We tested the safety and immunogenicity of ETVAX, consisting of four E coli strains overexpressing the most prevalent colonisation factors (CFA/I, CS3, CS5, and CS6) and a toxoid (LCTBA) administered with or without a double-mutant heat-labile enterotoxin (dmLT) as an adjuvant, in Bangladeshi children. We did a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, dose-escalation, age-descending, phase 1/2 trial in Dhaka, Bangladesh. Healthy children in one of three age groups (24-59 months, 12-23 months, and 6-11 months) were eligible. Children were randomly assigned with block randomisation to receive either ETVAX, with or without dmLT, or placebo. ETVAX (half [5·5 × 1010 cells], quarter [2·5 × 1010 cells], or eighth [1·25 × 1010 cells] adult dose), with or without dmLT adjuvant (2·5 μg, 5·0 μg, or 10·0 μg), or placebo were administered orally in two doses 2 weeks apart. Investigators and participants were masked to treatment allocation. The primary endpoint was safety and tolerability, assessed in all children who received at least one dose of vaccine. Antibody responses to vaccine antigens, defined as at least a two-times increase in antibody levels between baseline and post-immunisation, were assessed as secondary endpoints. This trial is registered with ClinicalTrials.gov, NCT02531802. Between Dec 7, 2015, and Jan 10, 2017, we screened 1500 children across the three age groups, of whom 430 were enrolled and randomly assigned to the different treatment groups (130 aged 24-59 months, 100 aged 12-23 months, and 200 aged 6-11 months). All participants received at least one dose of vaccine. No solicited adverse events occurred that were greater than moderate in severity, and most were mild. The most common solicited event was vomiting (ten [8%] of 130 patients aged 24-59 months, 13 [13%] of 100 aged 12-23 months, and 29 [15%] of 200 aged 6-11 months; mostly of mild severity), which appeared related to dose and age. The addition of dmLT did not modify the safety profile. Three serious adverse events occurred but they were not considered related to the study drug. Mucosal IgA antibody responses in lymphocyte secretions were detected against all primary vaccine antigens (CFA/I, CS3, CS5, CS6, and the LCTBA toxoid) in most participants in the two older age groups, whereas such responses to four of the five antigens were less frequent and of lower magnitude in infants aged 6-11 months than in older children. Faecal secretory IgA immune responses were recorded against all vaccine antigens in infants aged 6-11 months. 78 (56%) of 139 infants aged 6-11 months who were vaccinated developed mucosal responses against at least three of the vaccine antigens versus 14 (29%) of 49 of the infants given placebo. Addition of the adjuvant dmLT enhanced the magnitude, breadth, and kinetics (based on number of responders after the first dose of vaccine) of immune responses in infants. The encouraging safety and immunogenicity of ETVAX and benefit of dmLT adjuvant in young children support its further assessment for protective efficacy in children in enterotoxigenic E coli-endemic areas. PATH (Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and the UK's Department for International Development), the Swedish Research Council, and The Swedish Foundation for Strategic Research."},"31764244":{"title":"Immunopotentiator thymosin alpha-1 attenuates inflammatory pain by modulating the Wnt3a/β-catenin pathway in spinal cord.","abstract":"The mechanism of inflammatory pain involves the central nervous system (CNS) and the immune system. It is reported that immunopotentiator thymosin alpha-1 (Tα1) can reduce inflammation, protect neurons and strengthen the immune function. However, the roles of Tα1 in inflammatory pain still remain unclear. In this study, we found Tα1 can attenuate the complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA)-induced mechanical allodynia and heat hyperalgesia. Meanwhile, it reduced the upregulation of CFA-induced inflammatory mediators (interferon (IFN)-γ, tumor necrosis factor-α and brain-derived neurotrophic factor). In addition, we found the Wnt3a/β-catenin pathway was activated in spinal cord after the injection of CFA, paralleling with pain hypersensitivity. However, Tα1 reversed this status. In summary, Tα1 could attenuate inflammatory pain by modulating the Wnt3a/β-catenin pathway. It might be related to the downregulation of inflammatory mediators."},"31847886":{"title":"Testing a MultiTEP-based combination vaccine to reduce Aβ and tau pathology in Tau22/5xFAD bigenic mice.","abstract":"Alzheimer disease (AD) is characterized by the accumulation of beta-amyloid (Aβ) plaques and neurofibrillary tangles composed of hyperphosphorylated tau, which together lead to neurodegeneration and cognitive decline. Current therapeutic approaches have primarily aimed to reduce pathological aggregates of either Aβ or tau, yet phase 3 clinical trials of these approaches have thus far failed to delay disease progression in humans. Strong preclinical evidence indicates that these two abnormally aggregated proteins interact synergistically to drive downstream neurodegeneration. Therefore, combinatorial therapies that concurrently target both Aβ and tau might be needed for effective disease modification. A combinatorial vaccination approach was designed to concurrently target both Aβ and tau pathologies. Tau22/5xFAD (T5x) bigenic mice that develop both pathological Aβ and tau aggregates were injected intramuscularly with a mixture of two MultiTEP epitope vaccines: AV-1959R and AV-1980R, targeting Aβ and tau, respectively, and formulated in AdvaxCpG, a potent polysaccharide adjuvant. Antibody responses of vaccinated animals were measured by ELISA, and neuropathological changes were determined in brain homogenates of vaccinated and control mice using ELISA and Meso Scale Discovery (MSD) multiplex assays. T5x mice immunized with a mixture of Aβ- and tau-targeting vaccines generated high Aβ- and tau-specific antibody titers that recognized senile plaques and neurofibrillary tangles/neuropil threads in human AD brain sections. Production of these antibodies in turn led to significant reductions in the levels of soluble and insoluble total tau, and hyperphosphorylated tau as well as insoluble Aβ42, within the brains of bigenic T5x mice. AV-1959R and AV-1980R formulated with AdvaxCpG adjuvant are immunogenic and therapeutically potent vaccines that in combination can effectively reduce both of the hallmark pathologies of AD in bigenic mice. Taken together, these findings warrant further development of this vaccine technology for ultimate testing in human AD."},"31891152":{"title":"Allopurinol therapy provides long term clinical improvement, but additional immunotherapy is required for sustained parasite clearance, in L. infantum-infected dogs.","abstract":"There is little evidence that current control strategies for canine leishmaniosis (CanL), the veterinary disease caused by L. infantum infection, are having a positive impact. This is of critical importance because dogs are a primary reservoir for L. infantum and a significant source of parasite transmission to humans. Drugs intended primarily for human use are prohibited for the treatment of CanL because of concerns over the propagation of resistant parasites. Although allopurinol effectively decreases parasite burden in CanL the treatment needs to be maintained for life. We hypothesized that during the allopurinol-induced parasite reduction dogs may become capable of developing a more robust immune response that may permit more effective control of parasites. To test this, we investigated the clinical and parasitological impact of short-term treatment with allopurinol, either alone or in combination with a defined subunit vaccine, on dogs naturally infected with L. infantum. A total of 28 dogs were distributed as follows: untreated; oral allopurinol alone (20 mg/kg, once each day for 90 days); or allopurinol with immunization with the Leish-F2 antigen formulated with the Toll-like receptor (TLR) 4 agonist Second generation Lipid Adjuvant (SLA) in stable emulsion (SE; SLA-SE). Dogs that did not receive treatment had a progressive decline in their clinical condition and an increase in their infection levels, while treatment with allopurinol alone alleviated the clinical symptoms of CanL but did not generate sustained reduction in parasites. Concomitant immunization with Leish-F2 + SLA-SE, however, improved clinical condition while also providing long-term clearance of L. infantum from lymphoid tissues and systemic organs. These results have important implications for both the management of CanL and for limiting L. infantum transmission to humans."},"31899025":{"title":"A phase 1 antigen dose escalation trial to evaluate safety, tolerability and immunogenicity of the leprosy vaccine candidate LepVax (LEP-F1 + GLA-SE) in healthy adults.","abstract":"Healthy United States-based adult volunteers with no history of travel to leprosy-endemic countries were enrolled for the first-in-human evaluation of LepVax (LEP-F1 + GLA-SE). In total 24 volunteers participated in an open-labelclinicaltrial, with 21 receiving three injections of LepVax consisting of either 2 µg or 10 µg recombinantpolyprotein LEP-F1 mixed with 5 µg of the GLA-SE adjuvant formulation. LepVax doses were provided by intramuscular injection on Days 0, 28, and 56, and safety was evaluated for one year following the final injection. LepVaxwas safe and well tolerated at both antigen doses. Immunological analyses indicated that similar LEP-F1-specific antibody and Th1 cytokine secretion (IFN-γ, IL-2, TNF) were induced by each of the antigen doses evaluated within LepVax. This clinicaltrialof the first definedvaccinecandidate for leprosy demonstrates that LepVax is safe and immunogenic in healthy subjects and supports its advancement to testing in leprosy-endemic regions."},"31900406":{"title":"Antigen discovery unveils resident memory and migratory cell roles in antifungal resistance.","abstract":"Priming at the site of natural infection typically elicits a protective T cell response against subsequent pathogen encounter. Here, we report the identification of a novel fungal antigen that we harnessed for mucosal vaccination and tetramer generation to test whether we can elicit protective, antigen-specific tissue-resident memory (Trm) CD4+ T cells in the lung parenchyma. In contrast to expectations, CD69+, CXCR3+, CD103- Trm cells failed to protect against a lethal pulmonary fungal infection. Surprisingly, systemic vaccination induced a population of tetramer+ CD4+ T cells enriched within the pulmonary vasculature, and expressing CXCR3 and CX3CR1, that migrated to the lung tissue upon challenge and efficiently protected mice against infection. Mucosal vaccine priming of Trm may not reliably protect against mucosal pathogens."},"31906072":{"title":"Investigating Prime-Pull Vaccination through a Combination of Parenteral Vaccination and Intranasal Boosting.","abstract":"Formulation of inhalable delivery systems containing tuberculosis (TB) antigens to target the site of infection (lungs) have been considered for the development of subunit vaccines. Inert delivery systems such as poly (lactic-co-glycolic acid) (PLGA) are an interesting approach due to its approval for human use. However, PLGA suffers hydrolytic degradation when stored in a liquid environment for prolonged time. Therefore, in this study, nano- and microparticles composed of different PLGA copolymers (50:50, 75:25 and 85:15), sucrose (10% w/v) and L-leucine (1% w/v) encapsulating H56 TB vaccine candidate were produced as dried powders. In vitro studies in three macrophage cell lines (MH-S, RAW264.7 and THP-1) showed the ability of these cells to take up the formulated PLGA:H56 particles and process the antigen. An in vivo prime-pull immunisation approach consisting of priming with CAF01:H56 (2 × subcutaneous (s.c.) injection) followed by a mucosal boost with PLGA:H56 (intranasal (i.n.) administration) demonstrated the retention of the immunogenicity of the antigen encapsulated within the lyophilised PLGA delivery system, although no enhancing effect could be observed compared to the administration of antigen alone as a boost. The work here could provide the foundations for the scale independent manufacture of polymer delivery systems encapsulating antigens for inhalation/aerolisation to the lungs."},"31909977":{"title":"Degradable Carbon-Silica Nanocomposite with Immunoadjuvant Property for Dual-Modality Photothermal/Photodynamic Therapy.","abstract":"Carbon nanomaterials have flourished for cancer therapy for decades. However, their practical applications on clinical bases still pose a challenge to address the dilemma of metabolism in vivo. In this study, an attempt is made to design a degradable carbon-silica nanocomposite (CSN) with immunoadjuvant property, which could undergo an enzyme-free degradation process into small particles (∼5 nm) and facilitate its clinical application. CSN harbors photothermal and photodynamic properties and as an immunoadjuvant would help to generate tumor-associated antigens and mature dendritic cells (DCs). Potent antitumor effects have been achieved in both 4T1 and patient-derived xenograft tumor models with tumor inhibition efficiencies of 93.2% and 92.5%, respectively. We believe that this strategy will benefit the possible clinical translation and carbon-silica-nanomaterial-based cancer therapy."},"31929548":{"title":"LTA1 and dmLT enterotoxin-based proteins activate antigen-presenting cells independent of PKA and despite distinct cell entry mechanisms.","abstract":"Enterotoxin-based proteins are powerful manipulators of mucosal immunity. The A1 domain of heat-labile enterotoxin from E. coli, or LTA1, is a newer adjuvant from this family under investigation for intranasal vaccines. Although LTA1 has been examined in mouse vaccination studies, its ability to directly stimulate immune cells compared to related adjuvant proteins has not been well explored. Here, we perform the first rigorous examination of LTA1's effect on antigen presenting cells (APC) using a human monocyte cell line THP-1. To better understand LTA1's stimulatory effects, we compared it to dmLT, or LT-R192G/L211A, a related AB5 adjuvant in clinical trials for oral or parenteral vaccines. LTA1 and dmLT both activated APCs to upregulate MHC-II (HLA-DR), CD86, cytokine secretion (e.g., IL-1β) and inflammasome activation. The effect of LTA1 on surface marker changes (e.g., MHC-II) was highly dose-dependent whereas dmLT exhibited high MHC-II expression regardless of dose. In contrast, cytokine secretion profiles were similar and dose-dependent after both LTA1 and dmLT treatment. Cellular activation by LTA1 was independent of ganglioside binding, as pre-treatment with purified GM1 blocked the effect of dmLT but not LTA1. Unexpectedly, while activation of the inflammasome and cytokine secretion by LTA1 or dmLT was blocked by the protein kinase A inhibitor H89 (similar to previous reports), these responses were not inhibited by a more specific PKA peptide inhibitor or antagonist; thus Indicating that a novel and unknown mechanism is responsible for inflammasome activation and cytokine secretion by LT proteins. Lastly, LTA1 stimulated a similar cytokine profile in primary human monocytes as it did in THP1 cells, including IL-1β, IL-6, IL-8, MIP-1α, MIP-1β, and TNFα. Thus, we report that LTA1 protein programs a dendritic cell-like phenotype in APCs similar to dmLT in a mechanism that is independent of PKA activation and GM1 binding and entry."},"31930264":{"title":"Physicochemical structure of a polyacrylic acid stabilized nanoparticle alum (nanoalum) adjuvant governs TH1 differentiation of CD4+ T cells.","abstract":"The growing shift to subunit antigen vaccines underscores the need for adjuvants that can enhance the magnitude and quality of immune response. Aluminum salts or alums are the first adjuvants with a long history of clinical use. Alum predominantly induces T helper 2 (TH2) type immunity in animal models, characterized by antibody production with little to no induction of antigen-specific T cells. The lack of cell-mediated or T helper 1 (TH1) immunity makes alum adjuvants ineffective in mounting durable responses against diseases like tuberculosis, malaria and HIV. Here we show that the clinically approved adjuvant, Alhydrogel, reformulated as a stable nanoparticle (nanoalum) with the anionic polymer polyacrylic acid (PAA) induces structure-dependent TH1 response against the recombinant tuberculosis antigen ID93. We found that PAA adsorption to Alhydrogel was a key parameter affecting nanoalum adjuvanticity. Adsorption depended on various factors, most notably formulation pH, and directly correlated with immunological response in mice, enhancing known hallmarks of a murine TH1 type response: induction of antigen-specific IFN-γ secreting CD4+ T cells and IgG2c subclass of antibodies. Our results demonstrate a correlation between a measurable nanoalum property and immunological response, providing a structural basis to derive a beneficial immunological outcome from a clinically approved adjuvant."},"32001071":{"title":"Transcutaneous immunization with a nontypeable Haemophilus influenzae dual adhesin-directed immunogen induces durable and boostable immunity.","abstract":"Otitis media (OM) is a very common pediatric disease and nontypeable Haemophilus influenzae (NTHI) is the predominant causative agent. We've developed a chimeric immunogen, chimV4, that simultaneously targets two NTHI adhesins, OMP P5 and the type IV pilus. Transcutaneous immunization (TCI) via bandaid with chimV4 plus the adjuvant dmLT provides significant protection against experimental NTHI-induced OM in chinchilla models. Herein, we now examined the durability and boostability of the induced immune response. Bandaid immunization with chimV4+dmLT followed by two sequential middle ear challenges with NTHI resulted in rapid bacterial clearance and significantly accelerated disease resolution. Moreover, TCI with chimV4+dmLT significantly increased mature B-cell phenotypes and antibody-secreting cells within nasal-associated lymphoid tissues, a response that was further augmented upon TCI two months later. Thus, bandaid immunization induced durable and boostable immunity. The simplicity and non-invasive nature of TCI with chimV4+dmLT supports its utility as a highly effective additional immunization strategy for NTHI-induced OM."},"32023469":{"title":"Neonatal Rhesus Macaques Have Distinct Immune Cell Transcriptional Profiles following HIV Envelope Immunization.","abstract":"HIV-1-infected infants develop broadly neutralizing antibodies (bnAbs) more rapidly than adults, suggesting differences in the neonatal versus adult responses to the HIV-1 envelope (Env). Here, trimeric forms of HIV-1 Env immunogens elicit increased gp120- and gp41-specific antibodies more rapidly in neonatal macaques than adult macaques. Transcriptome analyses of neonatal versus adult immune cells after Env vaccination reveal that neonatal macaques have higher levels of the apoptosis regulator BCL2 in T cells and lower levels of the immunosuppressive interleukin-10 (IL-10) receptor alpha (IL10RA) mRNA transcripts in T cells, B cells, natural killer (NK) cells, and monocytes. In addition, immunized neonatal macaques exhibit increased frequencies of activated blood T follicular helper-like (Tfh) cells compared to adults. Thus, neonatal macaques have transcriptome signatures of decreased immunosuppression and apoptosis compared with adult macaques, providing an immune landscape conducive to early-life immunization prior to sexual debut."},"32025341":{"title":"Immunization with full-length Plasmodium falciparum merozoite surface protein 1 is safe and elicits functional cytophilic antibodies in a randomized first-in-human trial.","abstract":"A vaccine remains a priority in the global fight against malaria. Here, we report on a single-center, randomized, double-blind, placebo and adjuvant-controlled, dose escalation phase 1a safety and immunogenicity clinical trial of full-length Plasmodium falciparum merozoite surface protein 1 (MSP1) in combination with GLA-SE adjuvant. Thirty-two healthy volunteers were vaccinated at least three times with MSP1 plus adjuvant, adjuvant alone, or placebo (24:4:4) to evaluate the safety and immunogenicity. MSP1 was safe, well tolerated and immunogenic, with all vaccinees sero-converting independent of the dose. The MSP1-specific IgG and IgM titers persisted above levels found in malaria semi-immune humans for at least 6 months after the last immunization. The antibodies were variant- and strain-transcending and stimulated respiratory activity in granulocytes. Furthermore, full-length MSP1 induced memory T-cells. Our findings encourage challenge studies as the next step to evaluate the efficacy of full-length MSP1 as a vaccine candidate against falciparum malaria (EudraCT 2016-002463-33)."},"32032566":{"title":"PRIMVAC vaccine adjuvanted with Alhydrogel or GLA-SE to prevent placental malaria: a first-in-human, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled study.","abstract":"PRIMVAC is a VAR2CSA-derived placental malaria vaccine candidate aiming to prevent serious clinical outcomes of Plasmodium falciparum infection during pregnancy. We assessed the safety and immunogenicity of PRIMVAC adjuvanted with Alhydrogel or glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant in stable emulsion (GLA-SE) in French and Burkinabe women who were not pregnant. This first-in-human, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, dose escalation trial was done in two staggered phases, a phase 1A trial in 18-35-year-old women who were malaria naive in a hospital in France and a subsequent phase 1B trial in women who were naturally exposed to P falciparum and nulligravid in the clinical site of a research centre in Burkina Faso. Volunteers were recruited into four sequential cohorts receiving PRIMVAC intramuscularly at day 0, 28, and 56: two cohorts in France receiving 20 μg or 50 μg of PRIMVAC and then two in Burkina Faso receiving 50 μg or 100 μg of PRIMVAC. Volunteers were randomly assigned (1:1) to two groups (PRIMVAC adjuvanted with either Alhydrogel or GLA-SE) in France and randomly assigned (2:2:1) to three groups (PRIMVAC adjuvanted with either Alhydrogel, GLA-SE, or placebo) in Burkina Faso. Randomisation was centralised, using stratification by cohort and blocks of variable size, and syringes were masked by opaque labels. The primary endpoint was the proportion of participants with any grade 3 or higher adverse reaction to vaccination up until day 35. Safety at later time points as well as humoral and cellular immunogenicity were assessed in secondary endpoints. This trial is registered with ClinicalTrials.gov, NCT02658253. Between April 19, 2016, and July 13, 2017, 68 women (18 in France, 50 in Burkina Faso) of 101 assessed for eligibility were included. No serious adverse event related to the vaccine occurred. PRIMVAC antibody titres increased with each dose and seroconversion was observed in all women vaccinated with PRIMVAC (n=57). PRIMVAC antibody titres reached a peak (geometric mean 11 843·0, optical density [OD] 1·0, 95% CI 7559·8-18 552·9 with 100 μg dose and GLA-SE) 1 week after the third vaccination (day 63). Compared with Alhydrogel, GLA-SE tended to improve the PRIMVAC antibody response (geometric mean 2163·5, OD 1·0, 95% CI 1315·7-3557·7 with 100 μg dose and Alhydrogel at day 63). 1 year after the last vaccination, 20 (71%) of 28 women who were vaccinated with PRIMVAC/Alhydrogel and 26 (93%) of 28 women who were vaccinated with PRIMVAC/GLA-SE still had anti-PRIMVAC antibodies, although antibody magnitude was markedly lower (452·4, OD 1·0, 95% CI 321·8-636·1 with 100 μg dose and GLA-SE). These antibodies reacted with native homologous VAR2CSA expressed by NF54-CSA infected erythrocytes (fold change from baseline at day 63 with 100 μg dose and GLA-SE: 10·74, 95% CI 8·36-13·79). Limited cross-recognition, restricted to sera collected from women that received the 100 μg PRIMVAC dose, was observed against heterologous VAR2CSA variants expressed by FCR3-CSA (fold change from baseline at day 63: 1·49, 95% CI 1·19-1·88) and 7G8-CSA infected erythrocytes (1·2, 1·08-1·34). PRIMVAC adjuvanted with Alhydrogel or GLA-SE had an acceptable safety profile, was immunogenic, and induced functional antibodies reacting with the homologous VAR2CSA variant expressed by NF54-CSA infected erythrocytes. Cross-reactivity against heterologous VAR2CSA variants was limited and only observed in the higher dose group. An alternate schedule of immunisation, antigen dose, and combinations with other VAR2CSA-based vaccines are envisaged to improve the cross-reactivity against heterologous VAR2CSA variants. Bundesministerium für Bildung und Forschung, through Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau, Germany; Inserm, and Institut National de Transfusion Sanguine, France; Irish Aid, Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade, Ireland."},"32038629":{"title":"Sphingosine-1-Phosphate (S-1P) Promotes Differentiation of Naive Macrophages and Enhances Protective Immunity Against Mycobacterium tuberculosis.","abstract":"Sphingosine-1-phosphate (S-1P) is a key sphingolipid involved in the pathobiology of various respiratory diseases. We have previously demonstrated the significance of S-1P in controlling non-pathogenic mycobacterial infection in macrophages, and here we demonstrate the therapeutic potential of S-1P against pathogenic Mycobacterium tuberculosis (H37Rv) in the mouse model of infection. Our study revealed that S-1P is involved in the expression of iNOS proteins in macrophages, their polarization toward M1 phenotype, and secretion of interferon (IFN)-γ during the course of infection. S-1P is also capable of enhancing infiltration of pulmonary CD11b+ macrophages and expression of S-1P receptor-3 (S-1PR3) in the lungs during the course of infection. We further revealed the influence of S-1P on major signaling components of inflammatory signaling pathways during M. tuberculosis infection, thus highlighting antimycobacterial potential of S-1P in animals. Our data suggest that enhancing S-1P levels by sphingolipid mimetic compounds/drugs can be used as an immunoadjuvant for boosting immunity against pathogenic mycobacteria."},"32047657":{"title":"Novel mucosal adjuvant, mastoparan-7, improves cocaine vaccine efficacy.","abstract":"Cocaine is one of the most potent and addictive psychostimulants known and there are no available pharmacotherapies to treat cocaine addiction. Here we describe a novel cocaine vaccine employing the mucosal adjuvant and mast cell-activating oligopeptide, mastoparan-7 (M7), to achieve optimal IgA antibody responses in mucosal secretions and effective induction of humoral immunity using a short immunization protocol. This formulation, using a hapten-carrier system to deliver cocaine as antigen, also reduced cocaine penetration of the blood brain barrier and protected mice from its psychoactive effects by reducing cocaine-induced locomotion. Surprisingly, the magnitude of cocaine-specific antibody titers induced by each adjuvant was not the major determinant of functional protection from cocaine challenge. A side-by-side comparison of the two haptens, cocaine and its analog GNC demonstrated that cocaine haptenation resulted in superior functional protection when used in combination with the novel mucosal adjuvant, M7. These results provide a new potential strategy for combatting cocaine addiction through mucosal vaccination."},"32101001":{"title":"Structural Effect on Adjuvanticity of Saponins.","abstract":"We have prepared a number of saponin-based vaccine adjuvant candidates. These unnatural saponins have a different terminal-functionalized side chain incorporated into the glucuronic acid unit that is attached to a triterpenoid core at its C3 position. The semisynthetic saponin adjuvants have shown significantly different immunostimulatory activities, suggesting that the structure of the side chain, triterpenoid core, and oligosaccharide domain together orchestrate saponin adjuvant's potentiation of immune responses. Among these new adjuvant candidates, VSA-2 (5b), a derivative of Momordica saponin (MS) II, showed consistent enhancement of immunoglobulin G2a (IgG2a) production when it was in formulation with either ovalbumin or recombinant hemagglutinin B (rHagB) antigen. With rHagB antigen, it induced a significantly higher IgG2a response than the positive control GPI-0100, a well-studied semisynthetic saponin adjuvant mixture derived from Quillaja saponaria Molina saponins, known for its ability to induce a balanced Th1/Th2 immunity. These results confirm that Momordica saponins are a viable natural source to provide potent saponin adjuvants after simple chemical derivatization and identify VSA-2 (5b) as another MS-based promising immunostimulant lead owing to its distinctive ability in potentiating the IgG2a response."},"32106599":{"title":"Injection Vaccines Formulated with Nucleotide, Liposomal or Mineral Oil Adjuvants Induce Distinct Differences in Immunogenicity in Rainbow Trout.","abstract":"Protection facilitated by the widespread use of mineral oil adjuvanted injection vaccines in salmonid fish comes with adverse effects of varying severity. In this study, we characterized the immunological profiles of two alternative vaccine formulations, both with proven efficacy and an improved safety profile in rainbow trout. Experimental injection vaccines were prepared on an identical whole-cell Aeromonas salmonicida bacterin platform and were formulated with CpG oligodeoxynucleotides, a liposomal (CAF01) or a benchmark mineral oil adjuvant, respectively. A naïve group, as well as bacterin and saline-injected groups were also included. Following administration, antigen-specific serum antibody titers, the tissue distribution of immune cell markers, and the expression of immune-relevant genes following the in vitro antigenic restimulation of anterior kidney leukocytes was investigated. Immunohistochemical staining suggested prolonged antigen presentation for the particulate formulations and increased mucosal presence of antigen-presenting cells in all immunized fish. Unlike the other immunized groups, the CAF01 group only displayed a transient elevation in specific antibody titers and immunohistochemical observations, and the transcription data suggest an increased role of cell-mediated immunity for this group. Finally, the transcription profile of the CpG formulation approached that of a TH1 profile. When compared to the benchmark formulation, CAF01 and CpG adjuvants induce slight, but distinct differences in the resulting protective immune responses. This is important, as it allows a broader immunological approach for the future development of safer vaccines."},"32112853":{"title":"The incorporation of cationic property and immunopotentiator in poly (lactic acid) microparticles promoted the immune response against chronic hepatitis B.","abstract":"Biodegradable microparticles (MPs) as vaccine adjuvants have sparked the passion of researchers in recent decades. However, it is still a huge challenge to develop an efficient vaccine delivery system to reverse chronic hepatitis B (CHB). Herein, we integrated a physiochemical merit and an immunopotentiator property in poly (lactic acid) (PLA) MPs and verified the therapeutic effect on CHB model mice. We prepared uniform MPs with insertion of cationic lipid didodecyldimethylammonium bromide (DDAB), which endowed a physiochemical merit for MPs. Such a DDAB-PLA (DP) group raised the recruitment of immune cells to the injection site along with the secretion of chemokines and pro-inflammatory cytokines, promoting the activation of antigen-presenting cells (APCs). Further combination of stimulator of interferon genes (STING) agonist 5,6-dimethylxanthenone-4-acetic acid (DMXAA) (DP-D) elevated 5.8-fold higher interferon regulatory factor 7 (IRF-7) expression compared to that for DP group. The DP group showed preferred lysosome escape advantage, which was in line with the DMXAA release behavior and the intracellular target of DMXAA. In addition, DP-D vaccine augmented the IFN-γ secreting splenocytes and motivated Th1-biased antibodies in a more efficient way than that for the DP group. In the CHB model, the MPs based vaccines achieved 50% HBsAg seroconversion rate, and HBcAg in the liver also got a reduction. DP-D produced higher amount of memory T/B cells to confer protection in a sustained manner. Present work thus provided a promising strategy, via integrating a fine-tuned physiochemical property and an immunopotentiator virtue in the MPs, which synergistically reinforced both humoral and cellular immune responses against CHB."},"32114177":{"title":"Alginate-coated chitosan nanoparticles act as effective adjuvant for hepatitis A vaccine in mice.","abstract":"The numerous recent hepatitis A outbreaks emphasize the need for vaccination; despite the effectiveness of the current ones, developments are needed to overcome its high cost plus some immune response limitations. Our study aims to evaluate the use of chitosan and alginate-coated chitosan nanoparticles as an adjuvant/carrier for the hepatitis A vaccine (HAV) against the traditional adjuvant alum. Immune responses towards (HAV-Al) with alum, (HAV-Ch) with chitosan, and (HAV-aCNP) with alginate-coated chitosan nanoparticles, were assessed in mice. HAV-aCNP significantly improved the immunogenicity by increasing the seroconversion rate (100%), the hepatitis A antibodies level, and the splenocytes proliferation. Thus, the HAV-aCNP adjuvant was superior to other classes in IFN-γ and IL-10 development. Meanwhile, the solution formula of HAV with chitosan showed comparable humoral and cellular immune responses to alum-adjuvanted suspension with a balanced Th1/Th2 immune pathway. The current study showed the potential of alginate-coated chitosan nanoparticles as an effective carrier for HAV. Consequently, this would impact the cost of HAV production positively."},"32131853":{"title":"A novel TLR7 agonist as adjuvant to stimulate high quality HBsAg-specific immune responses in an HBV mouse model.","abstract":"The global burden of hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection in terms of morbidity and mortality is immense. Novel treatments that can induce a protective immune response are urgently needed to effectively control the HBV epidemic and eventually eradicate chronic HBV infection. We designed and evaluated an HBV therapeutic vaccine consisting of a novel Toll-like receptor 7 (TLR7) agonist T7-EA, an Alum adjuvant and a recombinant HBsAg protein. We used RNA-seq, ELISA and hTLR7/8 reporting assays to characterize T7-EA in vitro and real-time PCR to evaluate the tissue-retention characteristics in vivo. To evaluate the adjuvant potential, we administrated T7-EA intraperitoneally in a formulation with an Alum adjuvant and HBsAg in normal and HBV mice, then, we evaluated the HBsAg-specific immune responses by ELISA and Elispot assays. T7-EA acted as an hTLR7-specific agonist and induced a similar gene expression pattern as an unmodified TLR7 ligand when Raw 264.7 cells were exposed to T7-EA; however, T7-EA was more potent than the unmodified TLR7 ligand. In vivo studies showed that T7-EA had tissue-retaining activity with stimulating local cytokine and chemokine expression for up to 7 days. T7-EA could induce Th1-type immune responses, as evidenced by an increased HBsAg-specific IgG2a titer and a T-cell response in normal mice compared to mice received traditional Alum-adjuvant HBV vaccine. Importantly, T7-EA could break immune tolerance and induce persistent HBsAg-specific antibody and T-cell responses in an HBV mouse model. T7-EA might be a candidate adjuvant in a prophylactic and therapeutic HBV vaccine."},"32132528":{"title":"Escherichia coli adhesion portion FimH functions as an adjuvant for cancer immunotherapy.","abstract":"Induction of antigen-specific immune activation by the maturation of dendritic cells (DCs) is a strategy used for cancer immunotherapy. In this study, we find that FimH, which is an Escherichia coli adhesion portion, induces toll-like receptor 4-dependent and myeloid differentiation protein 2-independent DC maturation in mice in vivo. A combined treatment regimen with FimH and antigen promotes antigen-specific immune activation, including proliferation of T cells, production of IFN-γ and TNF-α, and infiltration of effector T cells into tumors, which consequently inhibits tumor growth in mice in vivo against melanoma and carcinoma. In addition, combined therapeutic treatment of anti-PD-L1 antibodies and FimH treatment efficiently inhibits CT26 tumor growth in BALB/c mice. Finally, FimH promotes human peripheral blood DC activation and syngeneic T-cell proliferation and activation. Taken together, these findings demonstrate that FimH can be a useful adjuvant for cancer immunotherapy."},"32146328":{"title":"Multifunctional Protein Conjugates with Built-in Adjuvant (Adjuvant-Protein-Antigen) as Cancer Vaccines Boost Potent Immune Responses.","abstract":"Many cancer vaccines are not successful in clinical trials, mainly due to the challenges associated with breaking immune tolerance. Herein, we report a new strategy using an adjuvant-protein-antigen (three-in-one protein conjugates with built-in adjuvant) as an anticancer vaccine, in which both the adjuvant (small-molecule TLR7 agonist) and tumor-associated antigen (mucin 1, MUC1) are covalently conjugated to the same carrier protein (BSA). It is shown that the protein conjugates with built-in adjuvant can increase adjuvant's stimulation, prevent adjuvant's systemic toxicities, facilitate the codelivery of adjuvants and antigens, and enhance humoral and cellular immune responses. The IgG antibody titers elicited by the self-adjuvanting three-in-one protein conjugates were significantly higher than those elicited by the vaccine mixed with TLR7 agonist (more than 15-fold) or other traditional adjuvants. Importantly, the potent immune responses against cancer cells suggest that this new vaccine construct is an effective strategy for the personalized antitumor immunotherapy."},"32156809":{"title":"Vaccine-Induced Th1-Type Response Protects against Invasive Group A Streptococcus Infection in the Absence of Opsonizing Antibodies.","abstract":"Recent global advocacy efforts have highlighted the importance of development of a vaccine against group A Streptococcus (GAS). Combo5 is a non-M protein-based vaccine that provides protection against GAS skin infection in mice and reduces the severity of pharyngitis in nonhuman primates. However, Combo5 with the addition of aluminum hydroxide (alum) as an adjuvant failed to protect against invasive GAS infection of mice. Here, we show that formulation of Combo5 with adjuvants containing saponin QS21 significantly improves protective efficacy, even though all 7 adjuvants tested generated high antigen-specific IgG antibody titers, including alum. Detailed characterization of Combo5 formulated with SMQ adjuvant, a squalene-in-water emulsion containing a TLR4 agonist and QS21, showed significant differences from the results obtained with alum in IgG subclasses generated following immunization, with an absence of GAS opsonizing antibodies. SMQ, but not alum, generated strong interleukin-6 (IL-6), gamma interferon (IFN-γ), and tumor necrosis alpha (TNF-α) responses. This work highlights the importance of adjuvant selection for non-M protein-based GAS vaccines to optimize immune responses and protective efficacy.IMPORTANCE Availability of a group A Streptococcus vaccine remains an unmet public health need. Here, we tested different adjuvant formulations to improve the protective efficacy of non-M protein vaccine Combo5 in an invasive disease model. We show that novel adjuvants can dramatically shape the type of immune response developed following immunization with Combo5 and significantly improve protection. In addition, protection afforded by Combo5 is not mediated by opsonizing antibodies, believed to be the main correlate of protection against GAS infections. Overall, this report highlights the importance of adjuvant selection in raising protective immune responses against GAS invasive infection. Adjuvants that can provide a more balanced Th1/Th2-type response may be required to optimize protection of GAS vaccines, particularly those based on non-M protein antigens."},"32210964":{"title":"IL-33 Is Essential for Adjuvant Effect of Hydroxypropyl-β-Cyclodexrin on the Protective Intranasal Influenza Vaccination.","abstract":"Vaccine adjuvants are traditionally used to augment and modulate the immunogenicity of vaccines, although in many cases it is unclear which specific molecules contribute to their stimulatory activity. We previously reported that both subcutaneous and intranasal administration of hydroxypropyl-β-cyclodextrin (HP-β-CD), a pharmaceutical excipient widely used to improve solubility, can act as an effective adjuvant for an influenza vaccine. However, the mechanisms by which mucosal immune pathway is critical for the intranasal adjuvant activity of HP-β-CD have not been fully delineated. Here, we show that intranasally administered HP-β-CD elicits a temporary release of IL-33 from alveolar epithelial type 2 cells in the lung; notably, IL-33 expression in these cells is not stimulated following the use of other vaccine adjuvants. The experiments using gene deficient mice suggested that IL-33/ST2 signaling is solely responsible for the adjuvant effect of HP-β-CD when it is administered intranasally. In contrast, the subcutaneous injection of HP-β-CD and the intranasal administration of alum, as a damage-associated molecular patterns (DAMPs)-inducing adjuvant, or cholera toxin, as a mucosal adjuvant, enhanced humoral immunity in an IL-33-independent manner, suggesting that the IL-33/ST2 pathway is unique to the adjuvanticity of intranasally administered HP-β-CD. Furthermore, the release of IL-33 was involved in the protective immunity against influenza virus infection which is induced by the intranasal administration of HP-β-CD-adjuvanted influenza split vaccine. In conclusion, our results suggest that an understanding of administration route- and tissue-specific immune responses is crucial for the design of unique vaccine adjuvants."},"32210973":{"title":"Novel Lipidated Imidazoquinoline TLR7/8 Adjuvants Elicit Influenza-Specific Th1 Immune Responses and Protect Against Heterologous H3N2 Influenza Challenge in Mice.","abstract":"Most licensed seasonal influenza vaccines are non-adjuvanted and rely primarily on vaccine-induced antibody titers for protection. As such, seasonal antigenic drift and suboptimal vaccine strain selection often results in reduced vaccine efficacy. Further, seasonal H3N2 influenza vaccines demonstrate poor efficacy compared to H1N1 and influenza type B vaccines. New vaccines, adjuvants, or delivery technologies that can induce broader or cross-seasonal protection against drifted influenza virus strains, likely through induction of protective T cell responses, are urgently needed. Here, we report novel lipidated TLR7/8 ligands that act as strong adjuvants to promote influenza-virus specific Th1-and Th17-polarized T cell responses and humoral responses in mice with no observable toxicity. Further, the adjuvanted influenza vaccine provided protection against a heterologous H3N2 influenza challenge in mice. These responses were further enhanced when combined with a synthetic TLR4 ligand adjuvant. Despite differences between human and mouse TLR7/8, these novel lipidated imidazoquinolines induced the production of cytokines required to polarize a Th1 and Th17 immune response in human PBMCs providing additional support for further development of these compounds as novel adjuvants for the induction of broad supra-seasonal protection from influenza virus."},"32210975":{"title":"Epitope Mapping and Fine Specificity of Human T and B Cell Responses for Novel Candidate Blood-Stage Malaria Vaccine P27A.","abstract":"P27A is a novel synthetic malaria vaccine candidate derived from the blood stage Plasmodium falciparum protein Trophozoite Exported Protein 1 (TEX1/PFF0165c). In phase 1a/1b clinical trials in malaria unexposed adults in Switzerland and in malaria pre-exposed adults in Tanzania, P27A formulated with Alhydrogel and GLA-SE adjuvants induced antigen-specific antibodies and T-cell activity. The GLA-SE adjuvant induced significantly stronger humoral responses than the Alhydrogel adjuvant. Groups of pre-exposed and unexposed subjects received identical vaccine formulations, which supported the comparison of the cellular and humoral response to P27A in terms of fine specificity and affinity for populations and adjuvants. Globally, fine specificity of the T and B cell responses exhibited preferred recognized sequences and did not highlight major differences between adjuvants or populations. Affinity of anti-P27A antibodies was around 10-8 M in all groups. Pre-exposed volunteers presented anti-P27A with higher affinity than unexposed volunteers. Increasing the dose of GLA-SE from 2.5 to 5 μg in pre-exposed volunteers improved anti-P27A affinity and decreased the number of recognized epitopes. These results indicate a higher maturation of the humoral response in pre-exposed volunteers, particularly when immunized with P27A formulated with 5 μg GLA-SE."},"32213623":{"title":"HIV Env-Specific IgG Antibodies Induced by Vaccination of Neonatal Rhesus Macaques Persist and Can Be Augmented by a Late Booster Immunization in Infancy.","abstract":"The HIV epidemics in infants and adolescent women are linked. Young women of childbearing age are at high risk for HIV infection and, due to poor HIV testing rates and low adherence to antiretroviral therapy, are at high risk for mother-to-infant transmission. We hypothesize that HIV vaccine regimens initiated in early life would provide the necessary time frame to induce mature and highly functional Env-specific antibody responses that could potentially also protect against HIV acquisition later in life. The present study was designed to test two vaccine regimens, a clade C HIV Env protein vaccine (Env only) alone or combined with a modified vaccinia Ankara (MVA) vector expressing HIV Env (MVA/Env) for the induction and persistence of Env-specific antibody responses in an infant nonhuman primate model. Vaccination was initiated within the first week of life, with booster immunizations at weeks 6, 12, and 32. We demonstrate that both vaccine strategies were able to elicit durable Env-specific antibody responses that were enhanced by a late boost in infancy. Furthermore, we confirmed earlier data that intramuscular administration of the Env protein with the Toll-like receptor 7/8 (TLR7/8)-based adjuvant 3M-052 in stable emulsion (3M-052-SE) induced higher Env-specific antibody responses than vaccination with Env adjuvanted in Span85-Tween 80-squalene (STS) tested in a previous study. These results support the concept of early vaccination as a means to induce durable immune responses that may prevent HIV infection in adolescence at the onset of sexual debut.IMPORTANCE The majority of new HIV-1 infections occur in young adults, with adolescent women being 3 times more likely to acquire HIV than young men. Implementation of HIV prevention strategies has been less successful in this age group; thus, a vaccine given prior to adolescence remains a high priority. We propose that instead of starting HIV vaccination during adolescence, an HIV vaccine regimen initiated in early infancy, aligned with the well-accepted pediatric vaccine schedule and followed with booster immunizations, will provide an alternative means to reduce HIV acquisition in adolescence. Importantly, the long window of time between the first infant vaccine dose and the adolescence vaccine dose will allow for the maturation of highly functional HIV Env-specific antibody responses. Our study provides evidence that early life vaccination induces durable Env-specific plasma IgG responses that can be boosted to further improve the quality of the antibody response."},"32224538":{"title":"TLR Agonist rHP-NAP as an Adjuvant of Dendritic Cell-Based Vaccine to Enhance Anti-Melanoma Response.","abstract":"Melanoma is a common and malignant cutaneous tumor, which is responsible for a large proportion of skin cancer deaths. Dendritic cell (DC)-based vaccines have achieved positive results in the treatment of melanoma because of their ability to induce cytotoxic response to facilitate tumor elimination. To improve the efficacy of dendritic cell-based vaccines by the adjuvant activity of Helicobacter pylori neutrophil activating protein (HP-NAP). The recombinant HP-NAP (rHP-NAP) was expressed by using prokaryotic expression system. DCs were cultured with granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) and IL-4. After treating with rHP-NAP, the maturation of DCs and dendritic cell-based vaccine were assayed by using flow cytometry and qRT-PCR. The activation and proliferation of T cells were measured by FCM, ELISA and MTT methods. The tumor specific cytotoxic response to resistant B16F10 was detected by using lactate dehydrogenase-release assay and qRT-PCR. The rHP-NAP, prepared from E. coli prokaryotic expression system, was able to significantly promote the maturation of dendritic cell-based vaccine loaded with tumor cell lysate (TCL) of B16F10 (DC-B16F10-TCL). Furthermore, it effectively induced the activation and proliferation of T cells and tumor specific cytotoxic response to resistant B16F10 melanoma tumor cells. These results suggested that rHP-NAP possesses the potential for use as an adjuvant of dendritic cell-based vaccine in anti-melanoma treatment."},"32240675":{"title":"Albumin-biomineralized nanoparticles to synergize phototherapy and immunotherapy against melanoma.","abstract":"To date, cancer phototherapy remains as an unsatisfactory method of cancer treatment due to the high probability of cancer recurrence - an effect that is partly driven by tumor-driven immunosuppression. Therefore, we propose inducing adequate immune responses after photo tumor ablation may be critical to achieve a long term therapeutic effect of phototherapy. Here, we engineered the photosensitizer chlorin e6 (Ce6) and the time-honored immunoadjuvant aluminum hydroxide into bovine serum albumin by albumin-based biomineralization as a novel nanosystem (Al-BSA-Ce6 NPs). After intravenous injection, the nanoparticles not only destroyed tumor cells effectively but also protected animals against tumor rechallenge and metastasis by strongly inducing a systemic anti-tumor immune response. Subsequent analysis demonstrated T cells accumulated in lymph nodes and infiltrated the tumor site, elevating levels of immune indicators including serum antibody, cytokine level and higher proportions of cytotoxic T cells and Th1 cells. These protective effects were not observed with commercially available alumina gels, or when the aluminum hydroxide in the nanoparticles was replaced with ferric hydroxide. Therefore, we present Al-BSA-Ce6 NPs as a novel and unique system for alumina adjuvants that serves as an effective approach for cancer therapy."},"32244885":{"title":"Use of STAT6 Phosphorylation Inhibitor and Trimethylglycine as New Adjuvant Therapies for 5-Fluorouracil in Colitis-Associated Tumorigenesis.","abstract":"Colorectal cancer (CRC) is one of the most widespread and deadly types of neoplasia around the world, where the inflammatory microenvironment has critical importance in the process of tumor growth, metastasis, and drug resistance. Despite its limited effectiveness, 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) is the main drug utilized for CRC treatment. The combination of 5-FU with other agents modestly increases its effectiveness in patients. Here, we evaluated the anti-inflammatory Trimethylglycine and the Signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT6) inhibitor AS1517499, as possible adjuvants to 5-FU in already established cancers, using a model of colitis-associated colon cancer (CAC). We found that these adjuvant therapies induced a remarkable reduction of tumor growth when administrated together with 5-FU, correlating with a reduction in STAT6-phosphorylation. This reduction upgraded the effect of 5-FU by increasing both levels of apoptosis and markers of cell adhesion such as E-cadherin, whereas decreased epithelial-mesenchymal transition markers were associated with aggressive phenotypes and drug resistance, such as β-catenin nuclear translocation and Zinc finger protein SNAI1 (SNAI1). Additionally, Il-10, Tgf-β, and Il-17a, critical pro-tumorigenic cytokines, were downmodulated in the colon by these adjuvant therapies. In vitro assays on human colon cancer cells showed that Trimethylglycine also reduced STAT6-phosphorylation. Our study is relatively unique in focusing on the effects of the combined administration of AS1517499 and Trimethylglycine together with 5-FU on already established CAC which synergizes to markedly reduce the colon tumor load. Together, these data point to STAT6 as a valuable target for adjuvant therapy in colon cancer."},"32295873":{"title":"Immunization with a Biofilm-Disrupting Nontypeable Haemophilus influenzae Vaccine Antigen Did Not Alter the Gut Microbiome in Chinchillas, Unlike Oral Delivery of a Broad-Spectrum Antibiotic Commonly Used for Otitis Media.","abstract":"The use of broad-spectrum antibiotics to treat diseases, such as the highly prevalent pediatric disease otitis media (OM), contributes significantly to the worldwide emergence of multiple-antibiotic-resistant microbes, and gut dysbiosis with diarrhea is a common adverse sequela. Moreover, for many diseases, like OM, biofilms contribute significantly to chronicity and recurrence, yet biofilm-resident bacteria are characteristically highly resistant to antibiotics. The most cost-effective way to both prevent and resolve diseases like OM, as well as begin to address the problem of growing antibiotic resistance, would be via the development of novel approaches to eradicate bacterial biofilms. Toward this goal, we designed a vaccine antigen that induces the formation of antibodies that prevent biofilm formation and, thereby, experimental OM in the middle ears of chinchillas by the predominant Gram-negative pathogen responsible for this disease, nontypeable Haemophilus influenzae These antibodies also significantly disrupt preexisting biofilms formed by diverse pathogens. Whereas preclinical data strongly support the continued development of this vaccine antigen, which targets an essential structural element of bacterial biofilms, a concern has been whether active immunization would also lead to unintended collateral damage in the form of an altered gut microbiome. To address this concern, we assessed changes in the microbiome of the chinchilla gut over time after the delivery of either amoxicillin-clavulanate, the standard of care for OM, or after immunization with our biofilm-targeted vaccine antigen either via a traditional subcutaneous route or via a novel noninvasive transcutaneous route. We show that differences in the abundance of specific taxa were found only in the stools of antibiotic-treated animals.IMPORTANCE The prevalence of chronic and recurrent diseases, combined with the overuse/abuse of antibiotics that has led to the sobering emergence of bacteria resistant to multiple antibiotics, has mandated that we develop novel approaches to better manage these diseases or, ideally, prevent them. Biofilms play a key role in the pathogenesis of chronic and recurrent bacterial diseases but are difficult, if not impossible, to eradicate with antibiotics. We developed a vaccine antigen designed to mediate biofilm disruption; however, it is also important that delivery of this vaccine does not induce collateral damage to the microbiome. The studies described here validated a vaccine approach that targets biofilms without the consequences of an altered gut microbiome. While delivery of the antibiotic most commonly given to children with ear infections did indeed alter the gut microbiome, as expected, immunization via traditional injection or by noninvasive delivery to the skin did not result in changes to the chinchilla gut microbiome."},"32312317":{"title":"Influenza NG-34 T cell conserved epitope adjuvanted with CAF01 as a possible influenza vaccine candidate.","abstract":"Conserved epitopes are targets commonly researched to be part of universal vaccine candidates against influenza viruses (IV). These conserved epitopes need to be cross-protecting against distinct IV subtypes and to have a strong immunogenic potential. Nevertheless, subunit vaccines generally require a strong adjuvant to enhance their immunological effects. Herewith, we compare four different adjuvants differing in their immunological signatures that may enhance efficacy of a conserved hemagglutinin (HA)-epitope from IV, the NG-34, to define the most efficient combination of antigen/adjuvant to combat IV infections. Soluble NG-34 was mixed with adjuvants like aluminium hydroxide (AH) and AddaVax, known to induce Th2 and humoral responses; CAF01 which displays a biased Th1/Th17 profile and Diluvac Forte which augments the humoral response. Combinations were tested in different groups of mice which were subjected to immunological analyses. CAF01 + NG-34 induced a complete immune response with the highest IgG1, IgG2c titers and percentages of activated CD4 T cell promoting IFN-γ, IL-2 and TNF-α producing cells. Furthermore, in NG-34 stimulated mice splenocytes, cytokine levels of IFN-γ, IL-1β, IL-6, IL-10, IL-17 and TNF-α were also the highest in the CAF01 + NG-34 mouse group. This complete induced immune response covering the humoral and the cellular arms of the adaptive immunity promoted by CAF01 + NG-34 group suggests that CAF01 could be a good candidate as an adjuvant to combine with NG-34 for an efficacious vaccine against IV. However, more studies performed in IV hosts as well as studies with a challenge model are further required."},"32341057":{"title":"Secreted Phospholipase A2 Group X Acts as an Adjuvant for Type 2 Inflammation, Leading to an Allergen-Specific Immune Response in the Lung.","abstract":"Secreted phospholipase A2 (sPLA2) enzymes release free fatty acids, including arachidonic acid, and generate lysophospholipids from phospholipids, including membrane phospholipids from cells and bacteria and surfactant phospholipids. We have shown that an endogenous enzyme sPLA2 group X (sPLA2-X) is elevated in the airways of asthmatics and that mice lacking the sPLA2-X gene (Pla2g10) display attenuated airway hyperresponsiveness, innate and adaptive immune responses, and type 2 cytokine production in a model of airway sensitization and challenge using a complete allergen that induces endogenous adjuvant activity. This complete allergen also induces the expression of sPLA2-X/Pla2g10 In the periphery, an sPLA2 found in bee venom (bee venom PLA2) administered with the incomplete Ag OVA leads to an Ag-specific immune response. In this study, we demonstrate that both bee venom PLA2 and murine sPLA2-X have adjuvant activity, leading to a type 2 immune response in the lung with features of airway hyperresponsiveness and Ag-specific type 2 airway inflammation following peripheral sensitization and subsequent airway challenge with OVA. Further, the adjuvant effects of sPLA2-X that result in the type 2-biased OVA-specific adaptive immune response in the lung were dependent upon the catalytic activity of the enzyme, as a catalytically inactive mutant form of sPLA2-X does not elicit the adaptive component of the immune response, although other components of the immune response were induced by the inactive enzyme, suggesting receptor-mediated effects. Our results demonstrate that exogenous and endogenous sPLA2s play an important role in peripheral sensitization, resulting in airway responses to inhaled Ags."},"32345644":{"title":"The Cellular Response to Lanthanum Is Substrate Specific and Reveals a Novel Route for Glycerol Metabolism in Pseudomonas putida KT2440.","abstract":"Ever since the discovery of the first rare earth element (REE)-dependent enzyme, the physiological role of lanthanides has become an emerging field of research due to the environmental implications and biotechnological opportunities. In Pseudomonas putida KT2440, the two pyrroloquinoline quinone-dependent alcohol dehydrogenases (PQQ-ADHs) PedE and PedH are inversely regulated in response to REE availability. This transcriptional switch is orchestrated by a complex regulatory network that includes the PedR2/PedS2 two-component system and is important for efficient growth on several alcoholic volatiles. To study whether cellular responses beyond the REE switch exist, the differential proteomic responses that occur during growth on various model carbon sources were analyzed. Apart from the Ca2+-dependent enzyme PedE, the differential abundances of most identified proteins were conditional. During growth on glycerol-and concomitant with the proteomic changes-lanthanum (La3+) availability affected different growth parameters, including the onset of logarithmic growth and final optical densities. Studies with mutant strains revealed a novel metabolic route for glycerol utilization, initiated by PedE and/or PedH activity. Upon oxidation to glycerate via glyceraldehyde, phosphorylation by the glycerate kinase GarK most likely yields glycerate-2-phosphate, which is eventually channeled into the central metabolism of the cell. This new route functions in parallel with the main degradation pathway encoded by the glpFKRD operon and provides a growth advantage to the cells by allowing an earlier onset of growth with glycerol as the sole source of carbon and energy.IMPORTANCE The biological role of REEs has long been underestimated, and research has mainly focused on methanotrophic and methylotrophic bacteria. We have recently demonstrated that P. putida, a plant growth-promoting bacterium that thrives in the rhizosphere of various food crops, possesses a REE-dependent alcohol dehydrogenase (PedH), but knowledge about REE-specific effects on physiological traits in nonmethylotrophic bacteria is still scarce. This study demonstrates that the cellular response of P. putida to lanthanum (La3+) is mostly substrate specific and that La3+ availability highly affects the growth of cells on glycerol. Further, a novel route for glycerol metabolism is identified, which is initiated by PedE and/or PedH activity and provides a growth advantage to this biotechnologically relevant organism by allowing a faster onset of growth. Overall, these findings demonstrate that lanthanides can affect physiological traits in nonmethylotrophic bacteria and might influence their competitiveness in various environmental niches."},"32348377":{"title":"Maintaining immunogenicity of blood stage and sexual stage subunit malaria vaccines when formulated in combination.","abstract":"Eradication of Plasmodium falciparum malaria will likely require a multivalent vaccine, but the development of a highly efficacious subunit-based formulation has been challenging. We previously showed that production and immunogenicity of two leading vaccine targets, PfMSP119 (blood-stage) and Pfs25 (sexual stage), could be enhanced upon genetic fusion to merozoite surface protein 8 (PfMSP8). Here, we sought to optimize a Pfs25-based formulation for use in combination with rPfMSP1/8 with the goal of maintaining the immunogenicity of each subunit. Comparative mouse studies were conducted to assess the effects of adjuvant selection (Alhydrogel vs. glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant-stable emulsion (GLA-SE)) and antigen dose (2.5 vs. 0.5 μg) on the induction of anti-Pfs25 immune responses. The antibody response (magnitude, IgG subclass profile, and transmission-reducing activity (TRA)) and cellular responses (proliferation, cytokine production) generated in response to each formulation were assessed. Similarly, immunogenicity of a bivalent vaccine containing rPfMSP1/8 and rPfs25/8 was evaluated. Alum-based formulations elicited strong and comparable humoral and cellular responses regardless of antigen form (unfused rPfs25 or chimeric rPfs25/8) or dose. In contrast, GLA-SE based formulations elicited differential responses as a function of both parameters, with 2.5 μg of rPfs25/8 inducing the highest titers of functional anti-Pfs25 antibodies. Based on these data, chimeric rPfs25/8 was selected and tested in a bivalent formulation with rPfMSP1/8. Strong antibody titers against Pfs25 and PfMSP119 domains were induced with GLA-SE based formulations, with no indication of antigenic competition. We were able to generate an immunogenic bivalent vaccine designed to target multiple parasite stages that could reduce both clinical disease and parasite transmission. The use of the same PfMSP8 carrier for two different vaccine components was effective in this bivalent formulation. As such, the incorporation of additional protective targets fused to the PfMSP8 carrier into the formulation should be feasible, further broadening the protective response."},"32353578":{"title":"Antibacterial and antibiofilm activities of diphyllin against fish pathogens.","abstract":"Annihilation of biofilm forming bacterial pathogens is a challenging aspect in seafood and aquaculture industries. Microbes growing as biofilms cause deleterious effects on food products leading to food spoilage or loss of shelf life. As a measure to fight biofilms, agents that prevent/disrupt biofilms are recurrently screened. The study exemplifies the bactericidal and biofilm disruption potentials of a plant derived compound, diphyllin, against fish pathogens that colonizes Oreochromis mossambicus and Oreochromis niloticus. Precisely, diphyllin disrupted Salmonella typhi biofilms by triggering reactive oxidative species (ROS). Diphyllin-induced ROS had satisfactory correlation with S. typhi cell membrane damage and intracellular DNA degradation profiles providing a putative mechanistic model. In conclusion, the study identifies diphyllin as a therapeutic and dispersal agent aimed at biofilms formed by food-borne pathogens that persistently plague food processing and aquaculture settings."},"32402293":{"title":"Co-immunization of DNA and Protein in the Same Anatomical Sites Induces Superior Protective Immune Responses against SHIV Challenge.","abstract":"We compare immunogenicity and protective efficacy of an HIV vaccine comprised of env and gag DNA and Env (Envelope) proteins by co-administration of the vaccine components in the same muscles or by separate administration of DNA + protein in contralateral sites in female rhesus macaques. The 6-valent vaccine includes gp145 Env DNAs, representing six sequentially isolated Envs from the HIV-infected individual CH505, and matching GLA-SE-adjuvanted gp120 Env proteins. Interestingly, only macaques in the co-administration vaccine group are protected against SHIV CH505 acquisition after repeated low-dose intravaginal challenge and show 67% risk reduction per exposure. Macaques in the co-administration group develop higher Env-specific humoral and cellular immune responses. Non-neutralizing Env antibodies, ADCC, and antibodies binding to FcγRIIIa are associated with decreased transmission risk. These data suggest that simultaneous recognition, processing, and presentation of DNA + Env protein in the same draining lymph nodes play a critical role in the development of protective immunity."},"32411401":{"title":"H7N9 influenza split vaccine with SWE oil-in-water adjuvant greatly enhances cross-reactive humoral immunity and protection against severe pneumonia in ferrets.","abstract":"Until universal influenza vaccines become available, pandemic preparedness should include developing classical vaccines against potential pandemic influenza subtypes. We here show that addition of SWE adjuvant, a squalene-in-water emulsion, to H7N9 split influenza vaccine clearly enhanced functional antibody responses in ferrets. These were cross-reactive against H7N9 strains from different lineages and newly emerged H7N9 variants. Both vaccine formulations protected in almost all cases against severe pneumonia induced by intratracheal infection of ferrets with H7N9 influenza; however, the SWE adjuvant enhanced protection against virus replication and disease. Correlation analysis and curve fitting showed that both VN- and NI-titers were better predictors for protection than HI-titers. Moreover, we show that novel algorithms can assist in better interpretation of large data sets generated in preclinical studies. Cluster analysis showed that the adjuvanted vaccine results in robust immunity and protection, whereas the response to the non-adjuvanted vaccine is heterogeneous, such that the protection balance may be more easily tipped toward severe disease. Finally, cluster analysis indicated that the dose-sparing capacity of the adjuvant is at least a factor six, which greatly increases vaccine availability in a pandemic situation."},"32418798":{"title":"Adjuvant selection impacts the correlates of vaccine protection against Ebola infection.","abstract":"The establishment of correlates of protection is particularly relevant in the context of rare, highly lethal pathogens such as filoviruses. We previously demonstrated that an Ebola glycoprotein virus-like particle (VLP) vaccine, when given as two intramuscular doses, conferred protection from challenge in a murine challenge model. In this study, we compared the ability of Advax inulin-based adjuvant formulations (Advax1-4) to enhance Ebola VLP vaccine protection in mice. After two immunizations, Advax-adjuvants that included a TLR9 agonist component induced high IgG responses, with complete protection against Ebola virus challenge. Although anti-Ebola IgG levels waned over time, protection was durable and was still evident 150 days post-immunization. Mice were protected after just a single VLP immunization with Advax-2 or -4 adjuvants. Advax-adjuvanted VLPs induced a stronger IFN-γ, TNF and IL-12 signature and serum transferred from Advax-adjuvanted vaccinees was able to transfer protection to naïve animals, showing that Ebola protection can be achieved by antibodies in the absence of cellular immunity. By contrast, serum from vaccinees incorporating a pICLC adjuvant did not transfer protection despite high IgG levels on ELISA. These data highlight the importance of adjuvant selection for development of a successful Ebola VLP vaccine."},"32439945":{"title":"Vaccine adjuvant activity of a TLR4-activating synthetic glycolipid by promoting autophagy.","abstract":"Toll-like receptors (TLRs) play crucial roles in host immune defenses. Recently, TLR-mediated autophagy is reported to promote immune responses via increasing antigen processing and presentation in antigen presenting cells. The present study examined whether the synthetic TLR4 activator (CCL-34) could induce autophagy to promote innate and adaptive immunity. In addition, the potential of CCL-34 as an immune adjuvant in vivo was also investigated. Our data using RAW264.7 cells and bone marrow-derived macrophages showed that CCL-34 induced autophagy through a TLR4-NF-κB pathway. The autophagy-related molecules (Nrf2, p62 and Beclin 1) were activated in RAW264.7 cells and bone marrow-derived macrophages under CCL-34 treatment. CCL-34-stimulated macrophages exhibited significant antigen-processing activity and induced the proliferation of antigen-specific CD4+T cells as well as the production of activated T cell-related cytokines, IL-2 and IFN-γ. Furthermore, CCL-34 immunization in mice induced infiltration of monocytes in the peritoneal cavity and elevation of antigen-specific IgG in the serum. CCL-34 treatment in vivo did not cause toxicity based on serum biochemical profiles. Notably, the antigen-specific responses induced by CCL-34 were attenuated by the autophagy inhibitor, 3-methyladenine. In summary, we demonstrated CCL-34 can induce autophagy to promote antigen-specific immune responses and act as an efficient adjuvant."},"32457748":{"title":"Intrapulmonary (i.pulmon.) Pull Immunization With the Tuberculosis Subunit Vaccine Candidate H56/CAF01 After Intramuscular (i.m.) Priming Elicits a Distinct Innate Myeloid Response and Activation of Antigen-Presenting Cells Than i.m. or i.pulmon. Prime Immunization Alone.","abstract":"Understanding the in vivo fate of vaccine antigens and adjuvants and their safety is crucial for the rational design of mucosal subunit vaccines. Prime and pull vaccination using the T helper 17-inducing adjuvant CAF01 administered parenterally and mucosally, respectively, has previously been suggested as a promising strategy to redirect immunity to mucosal tissues. Recently, we reported a promising tuberculosis (TB) vaccination strategy comprising of parenteral priming followed by intrapulmonary (i.pulmon.) mucosal pull immunization with the TB subunit vaccine candidate H56/CAF01, which resulted in the induction of lung-localized, H56-specific T cells and systemic as well as lung mucosal IgA responses. Here, we investigate the uptake of H56/CAF01 by mucosal and systemic innate myeloid cells, antigen-presenting cells (APCs), lung epithelial cells and endothelial cells in mice after parenteral prime combined with i.pulmon. pull immunization, and after parenteral or i.pulmon. prime immunization alone. We find that i.pulmon. pull immunization of mice with H56/CAF01, which are parenterally primed with H56/CAF01, substantially enhances vaccine uptake and presentation by pulmonary and splenic APCs, pulmonary endothelial cells and type I epithelial cells and induces stronger activation of dendritic cells in the lung-draining lymph nodes, compared with parenteral immunization alone, which suggests activation of both innate and memory responses. Using mass spectrometry imaging of lipid biomarkers, we further show that (i) airway mucosal immunization with H56/CAF01 neither induces apparent local tissue damage nor inflammation in the lungs, and (ii) the presence of CAF01 is accompanied by evidence of an altered phagocytic activity in alveolar macrophages, evident from co-localization of CAF01 with the biomarker bis(monoacylglycero)phosphate, which is expressed in the late endosomes and lysosomes of phagocytosing macrophages. Hence, our data demonstrate that innate myeloid responses differ after one and two immunizations, respectively, and the priming route and boosting route individually affect this outcome. These findings may have important implications for the design of mucosal vaccines intended for safe administration in the airways."},"32471056":{"title":"The Potency of an Anti-MERS Coronavirus Subunit Vaccine Depends on a Unique Combinatorial Adjuvant Formulation.","abstract":"Vaccination is one of the most successful strategies to prevent human infectious diseases. Combinatorial adjuvants have gained increasing interest as they can stimulate multiple immune pathways and enhance the vaccine efficacy of subunit vaccines. We investigated the adjuvanticity of Aluminum (alum) in combination with rASP-1, a protein adjuvant, using the Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus MERS-CoV receptor-binding-domain (RBD) vaccine antigen. A highly enhanced anti-MERS-CoV neutralizing antibody response was induced when mice were immunized with rASP-1 and the alum-adjuvanted RBD vaccine in two separate injection sites as compared to mice immunized with RBD + rASP-1 + alum formulated into a single inoculum. The antibodies produced also significantly inhibited the binding of RBD to its cell-associated receptor. Moreover, immunization with rASP-1 co-administered with the alum-adjuvanted RBD vaccine in separate sites resulted in an enhanced frequency of TfH and GC B cells within the draining lymph nodes, both of which were positively associated with the titers of the neutralizing antibody response related to anti-MERS-CoV protective immunity. Our findings not only indicate that this unique combinatorial adjuvanted RBD vaccine regimen improved the immunogenicity of RBD, but also point to the importance of utilizing combinatorial adjuvants for the induction of synergistic protective immune responses."},"32512102":{"title":"Exopolysaccharides from Lactobacillus kiferi as adjuvant enhanced the immuno-protective against Staphylococcus aureus infection.","abstract":"Exopolysaccharides from lactic acid bacteria (LAB) have gained more attention due to their health benefits. Most research on LAB EPS focuses on antitumor and antioxidant activities. To our knowledge, the immunoadjuvant activity of LAB EPS has not been thoroughly studied. In this study, the EPS produced by Lactobacillus kiferi WXD029 were purified by ethanol precipitation and column chromatography fractionation. The molecular weight of the EPS was 3.423 × 105 Da and was mainly composed of Glu, GlcN, and GalN in a molar ratio of 3.1:1:1. In vitro, EPS could significantly enhance the proliferation and phagocytic activity as well as induce the production of NO, TNF-α, IL-1β, and IL-6 in RAW264.7 cells. In vivo, the EPS adjuvant could increase the titers of S.aureus antigen-specific antibodies and markedly enhanced T cell proliferation. Notably, EPS adjuvant also induced a strong potential Th1, Th2 and Th17-cell mixture responses. Furthermore, immunization with S.aureus antigen plus EPS adjuvant induced a protective effect when compared with S.aureus antigen alone in murine bacteremia, pneumonia and mastitis model. Collectively, these results suggest that EPS derived from probiotic Lactobacillus kiferi strain is promising as an efficient adjuvant candidate for the prevention of S. aureus infections."},"32540272":{"title":"Vaccination of aged mice with adjuvanted recombinant influenza nucleoprotein enhances protective immunity.","abstract":"Elderly individuals are highly susceptible to influenza virus (IAV) infection and respond poorly to influenza vaccines. Although the generally accepted correlate of protection following influenza vaccination is neutralizing antibody titers, cytotoxic T cell activity has been found to be a better correlate in the elderly. This suggests that vaccines designed to protect against influenza in the elderly should induce both humoral and cellular immunity. The co-induction of T cell immunity is additionally advantageous, as virus-specific T cells are frequently cross-reactive against different strains of IAV. Here, we tested the capacity of a synthetic TLR-4 adjuvant, SLA-SE (second-generation lipid adjuvant formulated in a squalene-based oil-in-water emulsion) to elicit T cell immunity to a recombinant influenza nucleoprotein (rNP), in both young and aged mice. IAV challenge of vaccinated mice resulted in a modest increase in the numbers of NP-specific CD4 and CD8 effector T cells in the spleen, but did not increase numbers of memory phenotype CD8 T cells generated following viral clearance (compared to control vaccinated mice). Cytotoxic activity of CD8, but not CD4 T cells was increased. In addition, SLA-SE adjuvanted vaccination specifically enhanced the production of NP-specific IgG2c antibodies in both young and aged mice. Although NP-specific antibodies are not neutralizing, they can cooperate with CD8 T cells and antigen-presenting cells to enhance protective immunity. Importantly, SLA-SE adjuvanted rNP-vaccination of aged mice resulted in significantly enhanced viral clearance. In addition, vaccination of aged mice resulted in enhanced survival after lethal challenge compared to control vaccination, that approached statistical significance. These data demonstrate the potential of SLA-SE adjuvanted rNP vaccines to (i) generate both cellular and humoral immunity to relatively conserved IAV proteins and (ii) elicit protective immunity to IAV in aged mice."},"32547560":{"title":"Adjuvant Effect of Toll-Like Receptor 9 Activation on Cancer Immunotherapy Using Checkpoint Blockade.","abstract":"Immunotherapy using checkpoint blockade has revolutionized cancer treatment, improving patient survival and quality of life. Nevertheless, the clinical outcomes of such immunotherapy are highly heterogeneous between patients. Depending on the cancer type, the patient response rates to this immunotherapy are limited to 20-30%. Based on the mechanism underlying the antitumor immune response, new therapeutic strategies have been designed with the aim of increasing the effectiveness and specificity of the antitumor immune response elicited by checkpoint blockade agents. The activation of toll-like receptor 9 (TLR9) by its synthetic agonists induces the antitumor response within the innate immunity arm, generating adjuvant effects and priming the adaptive immune response elicited by checkpoint blockade during the effector phase of tumor-cell killing. This review first describes the underlying mechanisms of action and current status of monotherapy using TLR9 agonists and immune checkpoint inhibitors for cancer immunotherapy. The rationale for combining these two agents is discussed, and evidence indicating the current status of such combination therapy as a novel cancer treatment strategy is presented."},"32553971":{"title":"Structural characterization of a novel polysaccharide from Panax notoginseng residue and its immunomodulatory activity on bone marrow dendritic cells.","abstract":"This study isolated and characterized a novel polysaccharide (PNPS-0.3) from the residue of Panax notoginseng by gradient elution. PNPS-0.3 mainly consisted of a backbone of →4)- α-D-GalAp-(1 → 4-β-L-Rhap-1 → 4)-β-D-Galp-(1 → residues, with an α-L-Araf-1 → 5)-α-L-Araf-(1 → branch connecting to the backbone at O-3 of →4-β-L-Rhap-1 → and a molecular weight of 76,655 Da. Furthermore, the adjuvant potential of PNPS-0.3 with bone marrow dendritic cells (BMDCs) was investigated. The results suggested that PNPS-0.3 could induce maturation of BMDCs by reshaping the morphology, upregulating the CD40, CD80, CD86 and MHC II membrane phenotypic markers, and by promoting the secretion of TNF-α and IL-12 proinflammatory cytokines. Moreover, PNPS-0.3 can trigger the DC-induced T-cell immune response, as indicated by the higher expressions of CD4, CD8, CD69, and MHC II in T cells with increased secretion of INF-β. Furthermore, PNPS-0.3 can bind to the pattern recognition receptors (PRR) of Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR 4), Toll-like receptor 2 (TLR 2), and mannose receptor (MR) on BMDCs. PNPS-0.3 also upregulated the expressions of Myd88, IKKβ, PP65, T-P65, and NF-κB, suggesting that the TLR4/TLR2-NF-κB signaling pathway was involved in the immunomodulatory mechanism. In conclusion, the immunoadjuvant potential of novel PNPS-0.3 was characterized, which is beneficial for the future utilization and development of P. notoginseng."},"32561559":{"title":"3M-052, a synthetic TLR-7/8 agonist, induces durable HIV-1 envelope-specific plasma cells and humoral immunity in nonhuman primates.","abstract":"A fundamental challenge in vaccinology is learning how to induce durable antibody responses. Live viral vaccines induce antibody responses that last a lifetime, but those induced with subunit vaccines wane rapidly. Studies in mice and humans have established that long-lived plasma cells (LLPCs) in the bone marrow (BM) are critical mediators of durable antibody responses. Here, we present data that adjuvanting an HIV-1 clade C 1086.C-derived gp140 immunogen (Env) with a novel synthetic Toll-like receptor (TLR)-7/8 agonist named 3M-052 formulated in poly(lactic-co-glycolic)acid or PLGA nanoparticles (NPs) or with alum, either alone or in combination with a TLR-4 agonist GLA, induces notably high and persistent (up to ~1 year) frequencies of Env-specific LLPCs in the BM and serum antibody responses in rhesus macaques. Up to 36 and 18% of Env-specific cells among total IgG-secreting BM-resident plasma cells were detected at peak and termination, respectively. In contrast, adjuvanting Env with alum or GLA in NP induced significantly lower (~<100-fold) LLPC and antibody responses. Immune responses induced by 3M-052 were also significantly higher than those induced by a combination of TLR-7/8 (R848) and TLR-4 (MPL) agonists. Adjuvanting Env with 3M-052 also induced robust activation of blood monocytes, strong plasmablast responses in blood, germinal center B cells, T follicular helper (TFH) cells, and persistent Env-specific plasma cells in draining lymph nodes. Overall, these results demonstrate efficacy of 3M-052 in promoting high magnitude and durability of antibody responses via robust stimulation of innate immunity and BM-resident LLPCs."},"32561966":{"title":"The adjuvant effect of melanin is superior to incomplete Freund's adjuvant in subunit/peptide vaccines in mice.","abstract":"Peptide vaccines represent an attractive alternative to conventional anti-tumor therapies, but have not yet achieved significant clinical efficacy with commonly used formulations. Combination of short antigenic peptides, synthetic melanin and TLR9 agonist (Toll-like receptor 9, CpG-28) was reported as highly efficient to trigger strong CD8 + T-cell responses. We compared this vaccine approach to the standard adjuvant formulation that combines the incomplete Freund's adjuvant (IFA) and CpG-28, using either an ovalbumin epitope (pOVA30) or a spontaneously occurring tumor neoepitope (mAdpgk).Melanin-based vaccine induced significantly higher cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL) responses than IFA-based vaccine in both pOVA30- and mAdpgk-targeted vaccines. The anti-tumor efficacy of melanin-based vaccine was further assessed in mice, grafted either with E.G7-OVA cells (E.G7 cells transfected with ovalbumin) or with MC38 cells that spontaneously express the mAdpgk neoepitope. Melanin-based vaccine induced a major inhibition of E.G7-OVA tumor growth when compared to IFA-based vaccine (p < 0.001), but tumors eventually relapsed from day 24. In the MC38 tumor model, no significant inhibition of tumor growth was observed. In both cases, tumor escape appeared related to the loss of antigen presentation by tumor cells (loss of ovalbumin expression in E.G7-OVA model; poor presentation of mAdpgk in MC38 model), although the CTL responses displayed an effector memory phenotype, a high cytolytic potential and low programmed cell death-1 (PD1) expression.In conclusion, synthetic melanin can be efficiently used as an adjuvant to enhance T-cells response against subunit vaccine antigens and compared favorably to the classic combination of IFA and TLR9 agonist in mice."},"32574095":{"title":"Small-molecule inhibitors of TBK1 serve as an adjuvant for a plasmid-launched live-attenuated yellow fever vaccine.","abstract":"Plasmid-launched live-attenuated vaccines (PLLAV), also called infectious DNA (iDNA) vaccines, combine the assets of genetic immunization with the potency of replication-competent live viral vaccines. However, due to their origin as bacterial plasmid DNA, efficient delivery of PLLAV may be hampered by innate signaling pathways such as the cGAS-STING-mediated sensing of cytosolic DNA, resulting in an unfavorable proinflammatory and antiviral response locally at the site of immunization. Employing several complementary cell-based systems and using the yellow fever vaccine (YF17D) and the respective PLLAV-YF17D, we screened a panel of small molecules known to interfere with antiviral signaling for their proviral activity and identified two potent inhibitors of the TANK-binding kinase 1 (TBK1), BX795 and CYT387, to enhance YF17D replication and hence efficacy of PLLAV-YF17D transfection. In tissue culture, BX795 could fully revert the block that plasmid transfection poses on YF17D infection in a type I interferon dependent manner, as confirmed by (i) a marked change in gene expression signatures, (ii) a rescue of full YF17D replication, and (iii) a massively increased virus yield. Inhibitors of TBK1 may hence be considered an adjuvant to potentiate novel PLLAV vaccines, which might boost PLLAV delivery toward their use in vivo."},"32579133":{"title":"Intratumoral immune activation with TLR4 agonist synergizes with effector T cells to eradicate established murine tumors.","abstract":"Effective T cell-based immunotherapy of solid malignancies requires intratumoral activity of cytotoxic T cells and induction of protective immune memory. A major obstacle to intratumoral trafficking and activation of vaccine-primed or adoptively transferred tumor-specific T cells is the immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment (TME), which currently limits the efficacy of both anti-tumor vaccines and adoptive cell therapy (ACT). Combination treatments to overcome TME-mediated immunosuppression are therefore urgently needed. We combined intratumoral administration of the synthetic toll-like receptor 4 agonist glucopyranosyl lipid A (oil-in-water formulation, G100) with either active vaccination or adoptive transfer of tumor-specific CD8 T cells to mice bearing established melanomas or orthotopically inoculated glioblastomas. In combination with cancer vaccines or ACT, G100 significantly increased expression of innate immune genes, infiltration and expansion of activated effector T cells, antigen spreading, and durable immune responses. Complete tumor regression of both injected and non-injected tumors was observed only in mice receiving combination immunotherapy. TLR4-based intratumoral immune activation may be a viable approach to enhance the efficacy of therapeutic cancer vaccines and ACT in patients."},"32585230":{"title":"Co-delivery of antigen and dual adjuvants by aluminum hydroxide nanoparticles for enhanced immune responses.","abstract":"Adjuvants that contain pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs) can enhance vaccination efficacy by binding to pattern recognition receptors (PRRs), thereby stimulating immune responses. Particularly effective may be the combination of multiple PAMPs that activate different PRRs, which occurs with natural pathogens. Here we hypothesized the enhanced effects would occur in two adjuvants that stimulate different PRRs: CpG oligodeoxynucleotide (CpG-ODN), which is Toll-like receptor 9 agonist; and 5'-triphosphate, short, double-stranded RNA (3pRNA), which activates retinoic acid-inducible gene I (RIG-I). The model antigen ovalbumin (OVA) was loaded and adjuvants were surface-adsorbed to aluminum hydroxide nanoparticles (hereafter NP-3pRNA-CpG) by electrostatic interaction with an average size of 120 nm and a negative surface charge for targeting lymph nodes. These nanoparticles were efficiently internalized by antigen-presenting cells (APCs) in the lymph nodes, and the resulting APC activation and antigen cross-presentation generated strong humoral immunity and cytotoxic T lymphocyte responses and IFN-γ secretion. NP-3pRNA-CpG significantly suppressed B16-OVA tumor growth and prolonged survival of tumor-bearing mice in therapeutic and prophylactic models, illustrating the enhanced effects of CpG-ODN and 3pRNA. Our study highlights the potential of combining multiple adjuvants for effective vaccine design."},"32600913":{"title":"Comparison of carrier proteins to conjugate malaria transmission blocking vaccine antigens, Pfs25 and Pfs230.","abstract":"Malaria transmission blocking vaccines (TBV) target the sexual stage of the parasite and have been pursued as a stand-alone vaccine or for combination with pre-erythrocytic or blood stage vaccines. Our efforts to develop TBV focus primarily on two antigens, Pfs25 and Pfs230. Chemical conjugation of these poorly immunogenic antigens to carrier proteins enhances their immunogenicity, and conjugates of these antigens to Exoprotein A (EPA) are currently under evaluation in clinical trials. Nonetheless, more potent carriers may augment the immunogenicity of these antigens for a more efficacious vaccine; here, we evaluate a series of proteins to identify such a carrier. Pfs25 and Pfs230 were chemically conjugated to 4 different carriers [tetanus toxoid (TT), a recombinant fragment of tetanus toxin heavy chain (rTThc), recombinant CRM197 produced in Pseudomonas fluorescens (CRM197) or in E. coli (EcoCRM®)] and compared to EPA conjugates in mouse immunogenicity studies. Conjugates of each antigen formulated in Alhydrogel® elicited similar antibody titers but showed differences in functional activity. At a 0.5 µg dose, Pfs230 conjugated to TT, CRM197 and EcoCRM® showed significantly higher functional activity compared to EPA. When formulated with the more potent adjuvant GLA-LSQ, all 4 alternate conjugates induced higher antibody titers as well as increased functional activity compared to the EPA conjugate. IgG subclass analysis of Pfs230 conjugates showed no carrier-dependent differences in the IgG profile. While Alhydrogel® formulations induced a Th2 dominant immune response, GLA-LSQ formulations induced a mixed Th1/Th2 response."},"32636840":{"title":"A Novel Synthetic Dual Agonistic Liposomal TLR4/7 Adjuvant Promotes Broad Immune Responses in an Influenza Vaccine With Minimal Reactogenicity.","abstract":"The limited efficacy of seasonal influenza vaccines is usually attributed to ongoing variation in the major antigenic targets for protective antibody responses including hemagglutinin (HA) and neuraminidase (NA). Hence, vaccine development has largely focused on broadening antigenic epitopes to generate cross-reactive protection. However, the vaccine adjuvant components which can accelerate, enhance and prolong antigenic immune responses, can also increase the breadth of these responses. We previously demonstrated that the combination of synthetic small-molecule Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) and TLR7 ligands is a potent adjuvant for recombinant influenza virus HA, inducing rapid, and sustained antibody responses that are protective against influenza viruses in homologous and heterologous murine challenge models. To further enhance adjuvant efficacy, we performed a structure-activity relationship study for the TLR4 ligand, N-cyclohexyl-2-((5-methyl-4-oxo-3-phenyl-4,5-dihydro-3H-pyrimido[5,4-b]indol-2-yl)thio)acetamide (C25H26N4O2S; 1Z105), and identified the 8-(furan-2-yl) substituted pyrimido[5,4-b]indole analog (C29H28N4O3S; 2B182C) as a derivative with higher potency in activating both human and mouse TLR4-NF-κB reporter cells and primary cells. In a prime-boost immunization model using inactivated influenza A virus [IIAV; A/California/04/2009 (H1N1)pdm09], 2B182C used as adjuvant induced higher serum anti-HA and anti-NA IgG1 levels compared to 1Z105, and also increased the anti-NA IgG2a responses. In combination with a TLR7 ligand, 1V270, 2B182C induced equivalent levels of anti-NA and anti-HA IgG1 to 1V270+1Z105. However, the combination of 1V270+2B182C induced 10-fold higher anti-HA and anti-NA IgG2a levels compared to 1V270+1Z105. A stable liposomal formulation of 1V270+2B182C was developed, which synergistically enhanced anti-HA and anti-NA IgG1 and IgG2a responses without demonstrable reactogenicity after intramuscular injection. Notably, vaccination with IIAV plus the liposomal formulation of 1V270+2B182C protected mice against lethal homologous influenza virus (H1N1)pdm09 challenge and reduced lung viral titers and cytokine levels. The combination adjuvant induced a greater diversity in B cell clonotypes of immunoglobulin heavy chain (IGH) genes in the draining lymph nodes and antibodies against a broad spectrum of HA epitopes encompassing HA head and stalk domains and with cross-reactivity against different subtypes of HA and NA. This novel combination liposomal adjuvant contributes to a more broadly protective vaccine while demonstrating an attractive safety profile."},"32636844":{"title":"Fifteen Years of Sm-p80-Based Vaccine Trials in Nonhuman Primates: Antibodies From Vaccinated Baboons Confer Protection in vivo and in vitro From Schistosoma mansoni and Identification of Putative Correlative Markers of Protection.","abstract":"Recent advances in systems biology have shifted vaccine development from a largely trial-and-error approach to an approach that promote rational design through the search for immune signatures and predictive correlates of protection. These advances will doubtlessly accelerate the development of a vaccine for schistosomiasis, a neglected tropical disease that currently affects over 250 million people. For over 15 years and with contributions of over 120 people, we have endeavored to test and optimize Sm-p80-based vaccines in the non-human primate model of schistosomiasis. Using RNA-sequencing on eight different Sm-p80-based vaccine strategies, we sought to elucidate immune signatures correlated with experimental protective efficacy. Furthermore, we aimed to explore the role of antibodies through in vivo passive transfer of IgG obtained from immunized baboons and in vitro killing of schistosomula using Sm-p80-specific antibodies. We report that passive transfer of IgG from Sm-p80-immunized baboons led to significant worm burden reduction, egg reduction in liver, and reduced egg hatching percentages from tissues in mice compared to controls. In addition, we observed that sera from Sm-p80-immunized baboons were able to kill a significant percent of schistosomula and that this effect was complement-dependent. While we did not find a universal signature of immunity, the large datasets generated by this study will serve as a substantial resource for further efforts to develop vaccine or therapeutics for schistosomiasis."},"32645499":{"title":"Lignin nanoparticles as a promising vaccine adjuvant and delivery system for ovalbumin.","abstract":"Vaccination is the most effective strategy of preventing and treating infectious diseases and the most significant issue in the development of potent vaccines is the sufficient immunogenicity and safety of vaccines. The main goal of the present study is to develop a potent and safe vaccine adjuvant that can also stabilize antigen formulations during preparation and storage. In this study, the model antigen ovalbumin (OVA) was encapsulated in polymeric nanoparticles based on lignin (OVA-LNPs). The nanoparticles had a particle size of 216 nm and a low polydispersity index. The nanoparticles were negatively charged (-26.7 mV) with high encapsulation efficiency 81.6% of OVA antigen. In vitro studies of the nanoparticles were tested against dendritic cells (DCs), specialized antigen-presenting cells (APCs). The results showed no cytotoxic effect from LNPs and a significantly higher percentage of dendritic cells have taken up the antigen when encapsulated inside LNPs in contrast to free OVA. The nanoparticle was administered intradermally to BALB/c mice and the resulting time-dependent systemic immune responses towards OVA were assessed by measuring the OVA-specific IgG titers using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). In vivo immunization with OVA-LNPs induced a stronger IgG antibody response than that induced by free OVA or alum adjuvanted OVA. Enhanced immunization by OVA-LNPs was attributed to the observed efficient uptake of the antigen by dendritic cells. These findings demonstrate that LNPs are promising to be used as vaccine adjuvant and delivery system for the induction of long-term immune responses."},"3265692":{"title":"The adjuvanticity of gamma inulin.","abstract":"Gamma-inulin (g-IN) is a polymorph identified as the active component of inulin preparations that specifically activates the alternative pathway of complement (APC). The APC is central to many leucocyte functions, including B cell activation. We show here that g-IN, when formulated as a pure, endotoxin-free, fine suspension insoluble at 37 degrees C and given at 50-100 micrograms per mouse, is a potent adjuvant for both humoral and cell-mediated responses to a variety of antigens. g-IN increased secondary IgG responses five- to 28-fold (P less than 0.001), using as antigen phosphorylcholine coupled to keyhole limpet haemocyanin; subclasses IgG 2a, 2b, and 3 were boosted several hundred-fold, IgG 1 10-fold. IgM and IgA were increased four- to six-fold. Delayed hypersensitivity, by footpad swelling after secondary challenge with sheep red blood cells (SRBC), was increased more than two-fold (P less than 0.001) if g-IN was included with the primary SRBC, equivalent to increasing primary doses 10-fold. g-IN was equally active if given 5 days before the primary SRBC. Thus it is an immune stimulant rather than a depot or vehicle for antigen. Mice primed subcutaneously with 30-300 HA units of H2N2 influenza virus (strain A/JAP) and challenged intranasally with a lethal dose of H1N1 virus (strain A/WSN) all died, but if g-IN was given with the primary antigen 50% of the mice survived (P less than 0.001), a deduced but not proven boost to cytotoxic T cell-mediated immunity. Unpublished work has shown that g-IN has no adverse effects at adjuvant-active doses.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"},"32697993":{"title":"Lyssavirus Vaccine with a Chimeric Glycoprotein Protects across Phylogroups.","abstract":"Rabies is nearly 100% lethal in the absence of treatment, killing an estimated 59,000 people annually. Vaccines and biologics are highly efficacious when administered properly. Sixteen rabies-related viruses (lyssaviruses) are similarly lethal, but some are divergent enough to evade protection from current vaccines and biologics, which are based only on the classical rabies virus (RABV). Here we present the development and characterization of LyssaVax, a vaccine featuring a structurally designed, functional chimeric glycoprotein (G) containing immunologically important domains from both RABV G and the highly divergent Mokola virus (MOKV) G. LyssaVax elicits high titers of antibodies specific to both RABV and MOKV Gs in mice. Immune sera also neutralize a range of wild-type lyssaviruses across the major phylogroups. LyssaVax-immunized mice are protected against challenge with recombinant RABV and MOKV. Altogether, LyssaVax demonstrates the utility of structural modeling in vaccine design and constitutes a broadened lyssavirus vaccine candidate."},"32739871":{"title":"New chimeric TLR7/NOD2 agonist is a potent adjuvant to induce mucosal immune responses.","abstract":"PRR (Pattern Recognition Receptor) agonists have been widely tested as potent vaccine adjuvants. TLR7 (Toll-Like Receptor 7) and NOD2 (nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain 2) are key innate receptors widely expressed at mucosal levels. Here, we evaluated the immunostimulatory properties of a novel hybrid chemical compound designed to stimulate both TLR7 and NOD2 receptors. The combined TLR7/NOD2 agonist showed increase efficacy than TLR7L or NOD2L agonists alone or combined in different in vitro models. Dual TLR7/NOD2 agonist efficiently stimulates TLR7 and NOD2, and promotes the maturation and reprogramming of human dendritic cells, as well as the secretion of pro-inflammatory or adaptive cytokines. This molecule also strongly induces autophagy in human cells which is a major intracellular degradation system that delivers cytoplasmic constituents to lysosomes in both MHC class I and II-restricted antigen presentation. In vivo, TLR7/NOD2L agonist is a potent adjuvant after intranasal administration with NP-p24 HIV vaccine, inducing high-quality humoral and adaptive responses both in systemic and mucosal compartments. Use of TLR7/NOD2L adjuvant improves very significantly the protection of mice against an intranasal challenge with a vaccinia virus expressing the p24. Dual TLR7/NOD2L agonist is a very potent and versatile vaccine adjuvant and promote very efficiently both systemic and mucosal immunity. This work was supported by Sidaction."},"32763959":{"title":"Was amorphous aluminium hydroxyphosphate sulfate adequately evaluated before authorisation in Europe?","abstract":"The Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp aluminium adjuvant 'amorphous aluminium hydroxyphosphate sulfate' (AAHS), primarily used in the Gardasil vaccines against human papilloma virus, has been criticised for lack of evidence for its safety. Documentation from Danish authorities and answers from the European Medicines Agency (EMA) suggest that AAHS may not have been sufficiently evaluated. Documentation from the Danish Medicines Agency shows discrepancies in the trial documents of two prelicensure clinical trials with Gardasil in 2002 and 2003. For both trials, the Agency seems to have authorised potassium aluminium sulfate as the adjuvant and not AAHS. In addition, the participants in the trial launched in 2002 were informed that the comparator was saline, even though the comparator was AAHS in an expedient consisting of L-histidine, polysorbate-80, sodium borate and sodium chloride. According to the EMA, AAHS was first introduced in Europe in 2004 as the adjuvant in Procomvax, a vaccine against the hepatitis B virus and Haemophilus influenza type b. The EMA reports that AAHS was introduced without any prelicensure safety evaluation. The adjuvant is described by the company to be both physically and functionally distinct from all other previously used aluminium adjuvants. There is a need for rigorous evaluation of benefits and harms of the adjuvant AAHS."},"32829976":{"title":"Formulation of the prefusion RSV F protein with a Th1/Th2-balanced adjuvant provides complete protection without Th2-skewed immunity in RSV-experienced young mice.","abstract":"Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) is a leading cause of lower respiratory tract infections among infants with most infections occurring in the first year of life. Multiple RSV exposures are required for children to mount adult-like immune responses. Although adult RSV immunity is associated with less severe disease, the protection induced through natural infection is short-lived. Therefore, vaccination of RSV-experienced young children may accelerate immunity and provide long-term protection from RSV reinfection. However, the extent to which different Th-biased vaccine regimens influence pre-existing humoral and cellular immunity in RSV-experienced young children is unknown. To address this question, infant BALB/c mice were RSV-infected and subsequently immunized with the prefusion RSV F (PreF) antigen formulated with either a Th2-skewing (Alum) or Th1/Th2-balanced (Advax-SM) adjuvant. These studies show that both adjuvants boosted neutralizing antibody and protected from RSV reinfection, but Advax-SM adjuvant prevented the Th2-skewed immunity observed in RSV-experienced young mice immunized with PreF/Alum."},"32849580":{"title":"Prefusion RSV F Immunization Elicits Th2-Mediated Lung Pathology in Mice When Formulated With a Th2 (but Not a Th1/Th2-Balanced) Adjuvant Despite Complete Viral Protection.","abstract":"Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) remains the most common cause of lower respiratory tract infections in children worldwide. Development of a vaccine has been hindered by the risk of developing enhanced respiratory disease (ERD) upon natural exposure to the virus. Generation of higher quality neutralizing antibodies with stabilized pre-fusion F protein antigens has been proposed as a strategy to prevent ERD. We sought to test whether there was evidence of ERD in naïve BALB/c mice immunized with an unadjuvanted, stabilized pre-fusion F protein, and challenged with RSV line 19. We further sought to determine the extent to which formulation with a Th2-biased (alum) or a more Th1/Th2-balanced (Advax-SM) adjuvant influenced cellular responses and lung pathology. When exposed to RSV, mice immunized with pre-fusion F protein alone (PreF) exhibited increased airway eosinophilia and mucus accumulation. This was further exacerbated by formulation of PreF with Alum (aluminum hydroxide). Conversely, formulation of PreF with a Th1/Th2-balanced adjuvant, Advax-SM, not only suppressed RSV viral replication, but also inhibited airway eosinophilia and mucus accumulation. This was associated with lower numbers of lung innate lymphocyte cells (ILC2s) and CD4+ T cells producing IL-5+ or IL-13+ and increased IFNγ+ CD4+ and CD8+ T cells, in addition to RSV F-specific CD8+ T cells. These data suggest that in the absence of preimmunity, stabilized PreF antigens may still be associated with aberrant Th2 responses that induce lung pathology in response to RSV infection, and can be prevented by formulation with more Th1/Th2-balanced adjuvants that enhance CD4+ and CD8+ IFNγ+ T cell responses. This may support the use of stabilized PreF antigens with Th1/Th2-balanced adjuvants like, Advax-SM, as safer alternatives to alum in RSV vaccine candidates."},"32860927":{"title":"DP7-C-modified liposomes enhance immune responses and the antitumor effect of a neoantigen-based mRNA vaccine.","abstract":"To date, many clinical trials have been carried out with neoantigen-specific mRNA vaccines, and positive results have been achieved. However, further improvements in the efficiency of the intracellular delivery of mRNA and the production of a stronger immune response are still worth studying. In this study, we used the cholesterol-modified cationic peptide DP7 (VQWRIRVAVIRK), which was developed in our previous study, with a transmembrane structure and immunoadjuvant function to modify DOTAP liposomes to create a common mRNA delivery system. This system was intended to improve the efficiency of the delivery of mRNA encoding individualized neoantigens to dendritic cells (DCs) and enhance the activation of DCs. The system serves dual functions as a carrier and as an immunoadjuvant. As a carrier of mRNA, DP7-C-modified DOTAP liposomes (DOTAP/DP7-C) could transfer mRNA efficiently into different type of DCs in vitro. As an immunoadjuvant, DOTAP/DP7-C liposomes were shown to be more efficacious in stimulating DC maturation, CD103+ DC (contributing to antigen presentation) production and proinflammatory cytokine secretion than DOTAP liposomes both in vitro and in vivo. In animal studies, the subcutaneous administration of DOTAP/DP7-C/LL2 neoantigen-encoding mRNA complexes significantly inhibited the growth of LL2 in situ and the growth of subcutaneous tumors and stimulated the production of antigen-specific lymphocyte reactions, which were superior to the DOTAP/LL2 neoantigen-encoding mRNA complex group. In conclusion, DOTAP/DP7-C liposomes may serve as a potential universal mRNA delivery system, providing a simple method to increase the efficiency of intracellular mRNA delivery and the immunostimulatory activity of DCs."},"32864794":{"title":"Particulate Alum via Pickering Emulsion for an Enhanced COVID-19 Vaccine Adjuvant.","abstract":"For rapid response against the prevailing COVID-19 (coronavirus disease 19), it is a global imperative to exploit the immunogenicity of existing formulations for safe and efficient vaccines. As the most accessible adjuvant, aluminum hydroxide (alum) is still the sole employed adjuvant in most countries. However, alum tends to attach on the membrane rather than entering the dendritic cells (DCs), leading to the absence of intracellular transfer and process of the antigens, and thus limits T-cell-mediated immunity. To address this, alum is packed on the squalene/water interphase is packed, forming an alum-stabilized Pickering emulsion (PAPE). \"Inheriting\" from alum and squalene, PAPE demonstrates a good biosafety profile. Intriguingly, with the dense array of alum on the oil/water interphase, PAPE not only adsorbs large quantities of SARS-CoV-2 (severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2) antigens, but also harbors a higher affinity for DC uptake, which provokes the uptake and cross-presentation of the delivered antigens. Compared with alum-treated groups, more than six times higher antigen-specific antibody titer and three-fold more IFN-γ-secreting T cells are induced, indicating the potent humoral and cellular immune activations. Collectively, the data suggest that PAPE may provide potential insights toward a safe and efficient adjuvant platform for the enhanced COVID-19 vaccinations."},"32926834":{"title":"Safety and immunogenicity of co-administered hookworm vaccine candidates Na-GST-1 and Na-APR-1 in Gabonese adults: a randomised, controlled, double-blind, phase 1 dose-escalation trial.","abstract":"Hookworms cause substantial morbidity in children and women of reproductive age. The control strategy of mass drug administration is suboptimal, hence the need for a vaccine. Necator americanus aspartic protease-1 (Na-APR-1) and N americanus glutathione S-transferase-1 (Na-GST-1) are involved in the digestion and detoxification of haemoglobin in the hookworm digestive tract. In animal models, vaccination against these antigens resulted in protection from challenge infection. Both vaccine candidates were shown to be safe and well tolerated when administered separately to healthy adults. We assessed the safety and immunogenicity of co-administered Na-GST-1 and Na-APR-1 (M74) vaccines in healthy Gabonese adults. This randomised, controlled, double-blind, phase 1, dose-escalation trial was done at the Centre de Recherches Médicales de Lambaréné, in a region of Gabon where N americanus and other helminths are prevalent. Healthy adults aged 18-50 years and living in Lambaréné or the surrounding areas were recruited to the study. Participants were enrolled consecutively into two dose cohorts (30 μg or 100 μg of the experimental vaccines) and randomly assigned in blocks (block size four) to receive three doses of either co-administered Na-GST-1 plus Na-APR-1 (M74; 30 μg or 100 μg of each), adjuvanted with Alhydrogel (aluminium hydroxide gel suspension) together with an aqueous formulation of glucopyranosyl lipid A, or hepatitis B vaccine plus saline (control group). Vaccines were administered intramuscularly on days 0, 28, and 180. The primary endpoint was safety, with immunogenicity a secondary endpoint. The intention-to-treat population was used for safety analyses, whereas for immunogenicity analyses, the per-protocol population was used (participants who received all scheduled vaccinations). Control vaccine recipients for both dose cohorts were combined for the analyses. The trial is registered with ClinicalTrials.gov, NCT02126462. Between Oct 27, 2014, and Jan 31, 2015, 56 individuals were screened for eligibility, of whom 32 were enrolled and randomly assigned to one of the three study groups (12 each in the 30 μg and 100 μg experimental vaccine groups and eight in the control group). Both study vaccines were well tolerated in both dose groups. The most common adverse events were mild-to-moderate injection-site pain, headache, myalgia, and nausea. No severe or serious adverse events related to the vaccines were recorded. 52 unsolicited vaccine-related adverse events occurred during the study, but there was no difference in frequency between vaccine groups. IgG antibodies were induced to each of the vaccine antigens, with mean IgG levels increasing after each vaccination. Vaccination with 100 μg of each vaccine antigen consistently induced IgG seroconversion (IgG levels above the reactivity threshold). Peak IgG responses were observed 2 weeks after the third vaccine dose for both antigens, with all participants who received the 100 μg doses seroconverting at that timepoint. IgG levels steadily declined until the final study visit 6 months after the third vaccination, although they remained significantly higher than baseline in the 100 μg dose group. Vaccination with recombinant Na-GST-1 and Na-APR-1 (M74) in healthy adults living in N americanus-endemic areas of Gabon was safe and induced IgG to each antigen. To our knowledge, this study is the first to report results of Na-APR-1 (M74) co-administered with Alhydrogel in participants from an N americanus-endemic area. Further clinical development of these vaccines should involve efficacy studies. European Union Seventh Framework Programme."},"32974162":{"title":"Toll-Like Receptor 4 Expression on Lymphoma Cells Is Critical for Therapeutic Activity of Intratumoral Therapy With Synthetic TLR4 Agonist Glucopyranosyl Lipid A.","abstract":"Intratumoral (IT) injections of Glucopyranosyl lipid A (G100), a synthetic toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) agonist formulated in a stable emulsion, resulted in T-cell inflammation of the tumor microenvironment (TME) and complete cure of 60% of mice with large established A20 lymphomas. Strong abscopal effects on un-injected lesions were observed in a bilateral tumor model and surviving mice resisted a secondary tumor challenge. Depletion of CD8 T-cells, but not CD4 or NK cells, abrogated the anti-tumor effect. Unexpectedly, TLR4 knock-out rendered A20 tumors completely non-responsive to G100. In vitro studies showed that GLA has direct effect on A20 cells, but not on A20 cells deficient for TLR4. As shown by genotyping and phenotyping analysis, G100 strongly activated antigen presentation functions in A20 cells in vitro and in vivo and induced their apoptosis in a dose dependent manner. Similarly, the TLR4 positive human mantle cell lymphoma line Mino showed in vitro activation with G100 that was blocked with an anti-TLR4 antibody. In the A20 model, direct activation of B-lymphoma cells with G100 is sufficient to induce protective CD8 T-cell responses and TLR4 expressing human B-cell lymphomas may be amenable to this therapy as well."},"32978003":{"title":"A first in human clinical trial assessing the safety and immunogenicity of transcutaneously delivered enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli fimbrial tip adhesin with heat-labile enterotoxin with mutation R192G.","abstract":"Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli (ETEC) is a leading cause of diarrhea among travelers and pediatric populations worldwide. The tip-localized adhesin of colonization factor antigen (CFA)/I fimbriae was engineered as a donor strand complemented variant (dscCfaE) and delivered via transcutaneous immunization. Preclinical vaccine testing demonstrated safety, immunogenicity and efficacy. A series of open-label dose-escalating phase 1 studies evaluated a 3-dose (days 0, 21, 42) regimen via a transcutaneous skin patch. A total of forty-six subjects were enrolled into one of four vaccine dose levels (10, 50, 250, or 1250 µg) co-administered with single-mutant heat-labile enterotoxin (LTR(192G)). At the 50 µg dose level, ten subjects received the dscCfaE vaccine without LT(R192G). The vaccine was well tolerated with mild local vaccine site reactions characterized by an erythematous papular rash and pruritus, which were less frequent and reactive in the group not receiving LT(R192G). The frequency of responses to dscCfaE were moderate, whereas anti-toxin responses (serum IgA/IgG) ranged from 75 to 100% across groups that received LT(R192G). Antigen-specific antibody-secreting cell responses were elicited at all dose levels, but were generally low. Follow-on studies will optimize construct and route of delivery and assess efficacy in an ETEC challenge study."},"32983577":{"title":"Preclinical optimization of an enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli adjuvanted subunit vaccine using response surface design of experiments.","abstract":"Enterotoxigenic E. coli (ETEC) is a leading cause of moderate-to-severe diarrhoea. ETEC colonizes the intestine through fimbrial tip adhesin colonization factors and produces heat-stable and/or heat-labile (LT) toxins, stimulating fluid and electrolyte release leading to watery diarrhoea. We reported that a vaccine containing recombinant colonization factor antigen (CfaEB) targeting fimbrial tip adhesin of the colonization factor antigen I (CFA/I) and an attenuated LT toxoid (dmLT) elicited mucosal and systemic immune responses against both targets. Additionally, the toll-like receptor 4 ligand second-generation lipid adjuvant (TLR4-SLA) induced a potent mucosal response, dependent on adjuvant formulation. However, a combination of vaccine components at their respective individual optimal doses may not achieve the optimal immune profile. We studied a subunit ETEC vaccine prototype in mice using a response surface design of experiments (DoE), consisting of 64 vaccine dose-combinations of CfaEB, dmLT and SLA in four formulations (aqueous, aluminium oxyhydroxide, squalene-in-water stable nanoemulsion [SE] or liposomes containing the saponin Quillaja saponaria-21 [LSQ]). Nine readouts focusing on antibody functionality and plasma cell response were selected to profile the immune response of parenterally administered ETEC vaccine prototype. The data were integrated in a model to identify the optimal dosage of each vaccine component and best formulation. Compared to maximal doses used in mouse models (10 µg CfaEB, 1 µg dmLT and 5 µg SLA), a reduction in the vaccine components up to 37%, 60% and 88% for CfaEB, dmLT and SLA, respectively, maintained or even maximized immune responses, with SE and LSQ the best formulations. The DoE approach can help determine the best vaccine composition with a limited number of experiments and may accelerate development of multi-antigen/component ETEC vaccines."},"32984856":{"title":"Programming Multifaceted Pulmonary T Cell Immunity by Combination Adjuvants.","abstract":"Induction of protective mucosal T cell memory remains a formidable challenge to vaccinologists. Using a combination adjuvant strategy that elicits potent CD8 and CD4 T cell responses, we define the tenets of vaccine-induced pulmonary T cell immunity. An acrylic-acid-based adjuvant (ADJ), in combination with Toll-like receptor (TLR) agonists glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant (GLA) or CpG, promotes mucosal imprinting but engages distinct transcription programs to drive different degrees of terminal differentiation and disparate polarization of TH1/TC1/TH17/TC17 effector/memory T cells. Combination of ADJ with GLA, but not CpG, dampens T cell receptor (TCR) signaling, mitigates terminal differentiation of effectors, and enhances the development of CD4 and CD8 TRM cells that protect against H1N1 and H5N1 influenza viruses. Mechanistically, vaccine-elicited CD4 T cells play a vital role in optimal programming of CD8 TRM and viral control. Taken together, these findings provide further insights into vaccine-induced multifaceted mucosal T cell immunity with implications in the development of vaccines against respiratorypathogens, including influenza virus and SARS-CoV-2."},"33019546":{"title":"Genetic Co-Administration of Soluble PD-1 Ectodomains Modifies Immune Responses against Influenza A Virus Induced by DNA Vaccination.","abstract":"Due to the low efficacy and the need for seasonal adaptation of currently licensed influenza A vaccines, the importance of alternative vaccination strategies is increasingly recognized. Considering that DNA vaccines can be rapidly manufactured and readily adapted with novel antigen sequences, genetic vaccination is a promising immunization platform. However, the applicability of different genetic adjuvants to this approach still represents a complex challenge. Immune checkpoints are a class of molecules involved in adaptive immune responses and germinal center reactions. In this study, we immunized mice by intramuscular electroporation with a DNA-vaccine encoding hemagglutinin (HA) and nucleoprotein (NP) of the influenza A virus. The DNA-vaccine was applied either alone or in combination with genetic adjuvants encoding the soluble ectodomains of programmed cell death protein-1 (sPD-1) or its ligand (sPD-L1). Co-administration of genetic checkpoint adjuvants did not significantly alter immune responses against NP. In contrast, sPD-1 co-electroporation elevated HA-specific CD4+ T cell responses, decreased regulatory CD4+ T cell pools, and modulated the IgG2a-biased HA antibody pattern towards an isotype-balanced IgG response with a trend to higher influenza neutralization in vitro. Taken together, our data demonstrate that a genetic DNA-adjuvant encoding soluble ectodomains of sPD-1 was able to modulate immune responses induced by a co-administered influenza DNA vaccine."},"33046728":{"title":"Engineering and characterization of a novel Self Assembling Protein for Toxoplasma peptide vaccine in HLA-A*11:01, HLA-A*02:01 and HLA-B*07:02 transgenic mice.","abstract":"Fighting smart diseases requires smart vaccines. Novel ways to present protective immunogenic peptide epitopes to human immune systems are needed. Herein, we focus on Self Assembling Protein Nanoparticles (SAPNs) as scaffolds/platforms for vaccine delivery that produce strong immune responses against Toxoplasma gondii in HLA supermotif, transgenic mice. Herein, we present a useful platform to present peptides that elicit CD4+, CD8+ T and B cell immune responses in a core architecture, formed by flagellin, administered in combination with TLR4 ligand-emulsion (GLA-SE) adjuvant. We demonstrate protection of HLA-A*11:01, HLA-A*02:01, and HLA-B*07:02 mice against toxoplasmosis by (i) this novel chimeric polypeptide, containing epitopes that elicit CD8+ T cells, CD4+ T helper cells, and IgG2b antibodies, and (ii) adjuvant activation of innate immune TLR4 and TLR5 pathways. HLA-A*11:01, HLA-A*02:01, and HLA-B*07:02q11 transgenic mouse splenocytes with peptides demonstrated predicted genetic restrictions. This creates a new paradigm-shifting vaccine approach to prevent toxoplasmosis, extendable to other diseases."},"33051497":{"title":"Synthetic Biology-derived triterpenes as efficacious immunomodulating adjuvants.","abstract":"The triterpene oil squalene is an essential component of nanoemulsion vaccine adjuvants. It is most notably in the MF59 adjuvant, a component in some seasonal influenza vaccines, in stockpiled, emulsion-based adjuvanted pandemic influenza vaccines, and with demonstrated efficacy for vaccines to other pandemic viruses, such as SARS-CoV-2. Squalene has historically been harvested from shark liver oil, which is undesirable for a variety of reasons. In this study, we have demonstrated the use of a Synthetic Biology (yeast) production platform to generate squalene and novel triterpene oils, all of which are equally as efficacious as vaccine adjuvants based on physiochemical properties and immunomodulating activities in a mouse model. These Synthetic Biology adjuvants also elicited similar IgG1, IgG2a, and total IgG levels compared to marine and commercial controls when formulated with common quadrivalent influenza antigens. Injection site morphology and serum cytokine levels did not suggest any reactogenic effects of the yeast-derived squalene or novel triterpenes, suggesting their safety in adjuvant formulations. These results support the advantages of yeast produced triterpene oils to include completely controlled growth conditions, just-in-time and scalable production, and the capacity to produce novel triterpenes beyond squalene."},"33066267":{"title":"CD4+ T Cells Induced by Tuberculosis Subunit Vaccine H1 Can Improve the HIV-1 Env Humoral Response by Intrastructural Help.","abstract":"The induction of a potent and long-lasting, broadly neutralizing antibody response is one of the most promising approaches in HIV-1 vaccination. Recently, we demonstrated that Gag-specific T helper cells induced by DNA priming can enhance and modulate the HIV Env-specific B cell response upon virus-like particle (VLP) boost by intrastructural help (ISH). In order to minimize the induction of potentially harmful HIV specific TH cells, we explored the possibility to harness the heterologous TH cells induced by a recombinant tuberculosis subunit vaccine H1, which contains a fusion protein of Ag85B and ESAT-6 antigens in combination with the liposomal adjuvant CAF01. To provide ISH, immunodominant MHC-II restricted peptides from the H1 vaccine were genetically incorporated into the HIV 1 Gag protein and used for HIV VLP production. ISH effects on Env-specific antibody levels and B cell differentiation were analyzed in mice primed against H1 and boosted with VLPs. In contrast to non-primed mice, a significant increase of Env-specific IgG levels for up to 26 weeks after the last immunization was observed. This increase was largely caused by elevated IgG2b and IgG2c levels in mice that received H1 priming. Additionally, ISH enhanced the frequency of Env-specific long-lived plasma cells in the bone marrow. In this study, we were able to demonstrate that a heterologous prime-boost regimen consisting of the H1 tuberculosis subunit vaccine and T helper epitope modified HIV-1 VLPs resulted in enhanced HIV Env antibody and B cell responses, mediated by intrastructural help."},"33072125":{"title":"Vaccine Adjuvants Differentially Affect Kinetics of Antibody and Germinal Center Responses.","abstract":"Aluminum salts and squalene based oil-in-water emulsions (SE) are widely used adjuvants in licensed vaccines, yet their mechanisms are not fully known. Here we report that induction of antibody responses displays different kinetics dependent on the adjuvant used. SE facilitated a rapid antibody response in contrast to aluminum hydroxide (AH) and the depot-forming cationic liposome-based adjuvant (CAF01). Antigen given with the SE adjuvant rapidly reached follicular B cells in the draining lymph node, whereas antigen formulated in AH or CAF01 remained at the site of injection as a depot. Removal of the injection site early after immunization abrogated antibody responses only when antigen was given in the depot-forming adjuvants. Despite initial delays in B cell activation and germinal center (GC) formation when antigen was given in depot-forming adjuvants, the antibody levels reached higher magnitudes than when the antigen was formulated in SE. This study demonstrates that the kinetic aspect of antibody responses is critical in adjuvant benchmarking and suggests that the optimal vaccination regime depends on the adjuvant used."},"33115866":{"title":"Enhancement of HIV-1 Env-Specific CD8 T Cell Responses Using Interferon-Stimulated Gene 15 as an Immune Adjuvant.","abstract":"Induction of the endogenous innate immune system by interferon (IFN) triggers the expression of many proteins that serve like alarm bells in the body, activating an immune response. After a viral infection, one of the genes activated by IFN induction is the IFN-stimulated gene 15 (ISG15), which encodes a ubiquitin-like protein that undergoes a reversible posttranslational modification (ISGylation). ISG15 protein can also act unconjugated, intracellularly and secreted, acting as a cytokine. Although ISG15 has an essential role in host defense responses to microbial infection, its role as an immunomodulator in the vaccine field remains to be defined. In this investigation, we showed that ISG15 exerts an immunomodulatory role in human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) vaccines. In mice, after priming with a DNA-ISG15 vector mixed with a DNA expressing HIV-1 gp120 (DNA-gp120), followed by a booster with a modified vaccinia virus Ankara (MVA) vector expressing HIV-1 antigens, both wild-type ISG15-conjugated (ISG15-wt) and mutant unconjugated (ISG15-mut) proteins act as immune adjuvants by increasing the magnitude and quality of HIV-1-specific CD8 T cells, with ISG15-wt providing better immunostimulatory activity than ISG15-mut. The HIV-1 Env-specific CD8 T cell responses showed a predominant T effector memory (TEM) phenotype in all groups. Moreover, the amount of DNA-gp120 used to immunize mice could be reduced 5-fold after mixing with DNA-ISG15 without affecting the potency and the quality of the HIV-1 Env-specific immune responses. Our study clearly highlights the potential use of the IFN-induced ISG15 protein as immune adjuvant to enhance immune responses to HIV antigens, suggesting that this molecule might be exploitable for prophylactic and therapeutic vaccine approaches against pathogens.IMPORTANCE Our study described the potential role of ISG15 as an immunomodulatory molecule in the optimization of HIV/AIDS vaccine candidates. Using a DNA prime-MVA boost immunization protocol, our results indicated an increase in the potency and the quality of the HIV-1 Env-specific CD8 T cell response. These results highlight the adjuvant potency of ISG15 to elicit improved viral antigen presentation to the immune system, resulting in an enhanced HIV-1 vaccine immune response. The DNA-ISG15 vector could find applicability in the vaccine field in combination with other nucleic acid-based vector vaccines."},"33129608":{"title":"Maternal immunization with adjuvanted RSV prefusion F protein effectively protects offspring from RSV challenge and alters innate and T cell immunity.","abstract":"Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) commonly causes severe respiratory tract infections in infants, peaking between 2 and 6 months of age; an age at which direct vaccination is unlikely to be effective. Maternal immunization can deliver high levels of antibodies to newborns, providing immediate protection. Following natural infection, antibodies targeting the prefusion conformation of RSV F protein (PreF) have the greatest neutralizing capacity and thus, may provide infants with a high degree of RSV protection when acquired through maternal vaccination. However, the influence of anti-PreF maternal antibodies on infant immunity following RSV exposure has not been elucidated. To address this knowledge gap, offspring born to dams immunized with a RSV PreF vaccine formulation were challenged with RSV and their immune responses were analyzed over time. These studies demonstrated safety and efficacy for RSV-challenged, maternally-immunized offspring but high and waning maternal antibody levels were associated with differential innate and T cell immunity."},"33233444":{"title":"CITCO as an Adjuvant Facilitates CHOP-Based Lymphoma Treatment in hCAR-Transgenic Mice.","abstract":"Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) is a malignant cancer originating in the lymphatic system with a 25-30% mortality rate. CHOP, consisting of cyclophosphamide (CPA), doxorubicin, vincristine, and prednisone, is a first-generation chemotherapy extensively used to treat NHL. However, poor survival rates among patients in advanced stages of NHL shows a need to improve this standard of care treatment. CPA, an integral component of CHOP, is a prodrug that requires CYP2B6-mediated bioactivation to 4-hydroxy-CPA (4-OH-CPA). The expression of CYP2B6 is transcriptionally regulated by the constitutive androstane receptor (CAR, NRi13). We have previously demonstrated that the induction of hepatic CYP2B6 by CITCO, a selective human CAR (hCAR) agonist, results in CHOP's enhanced antineoplastic effects in vitro. Here, we investigate the in vivo potential of CITCO as an adjuvant of CPA-based NHL treatment in a hCAR-transgenic mouse line. Our results demonstrate that the addition of CITCO to the CHOP regimen leads to significant suppression of the growth of EL-4 xenografts in hCAR-transgenic mice accompanied by reduced expression of cyclin-D1, ki67, Pcna, and increased caspase 3 fragmentation in tumor tissues. CITCO robustly induced the expression of cyp2b10 (murine ortholog of CYP2B6) through hCAR activation and increased plasma concentrations of 4-OH-CPA. Comparing to intraperitoneal injection, oral gavage of CITCO results in optimal hepatic cyp2b10 induction. Our in vivo studies have collectively uncovered CITCO as an effective facilitator for CPA-based NHL treatment with a pharmacokinetic profile favoring oral administration, promoting CITCO as a promising adjuvant candidate for CPA-based regimens."},"33294255":{"title":"Is AAV-delivered IL-27 a potential immunotherapeutic for cancer?","abstract":"Cytokines are one of the first immunotherapeutics utilized in trials of human cancers with significant success. However, due to their significant toxicity and often lack of efficacy, cytokines have given their spotlight to other cancer immunotherapeutics such as immune checkpoint inhibitors. Nevertheless, only a subset of cancer patients respond to checkpoint inhibitors. Therefore, developing a novel cytokine-based immunotherapy is still necessary. Among an array of cytokine candidates, IL-27 is a unique one that exhibits clear anti-tumor activity with low toxicity. Systemically delivered IL-27 by adeno-associated virus (AAV-IL-27) is very well tolerized by mice and exhibits potent anti-tumor activity in a variety of tumor models. AAV-IL-27 exerts its anti-tumor activity through directly stimulation of immune effector cells and systemic depletion of Tregs, and is particularly suitable for delivery in combination with checkpoint inhibitors or vaccines. Additionally, AAV-IL-27 can also be delivered locally to tumors to exert its unique actions. In this review, we summarize the evidence that support these points and propose AAV-delivered IL-27 as a potential immunotherapeutic for cancer."},"33298977":{"title":"Mucosal delivery of a multistage subunit vaccine promotes development of lung-resident memory T cells and affords interleukin-17-dependent protection against pulmonary tuberculosis.","abstract":"The development of effective vaccines against bacterial lung infections requires the induction of protective, pathogen-specific immune responses without deleterious inflammation within the pulmonary environment. Here, we made use of a polysaccharide-adjuvanted vaccine approach to elicit resident pulmonary T cells to protect against aerosol Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection. Intratracheal administration of the multistage fusion protein CysVac2 and the delta-inulin adjuvant Advax™ (formulated with a TLR9 agonist) provided superior protection against aerosol M. tuberculosis infection in mice, compared to parenteral delivery. Surprisingly, removal of the TLR9 agonist did not impact vaccine protection despite a reduction in cytokine-secreting T cell subsets, particularly CD4+IFN-γ+IL-2+TNF+ multifunctional T cells. CysVac2/Advax-mediated protection was associated with the induction of lung-resident, antigen-specific memory CD4+ T cells that expressed IL-17 and RORγT, the master transcriptional regulator of Th17 differentiation. IL-17 was identified as a key mediator of vaccine efficacy, with blocking of IL-17 during M. tuberculosis challenge reducing phagocyte influx, suppressing priming of pathogen-specific CD4+ T cells in local lymph nodes and ablating vaccine-induced protection. These findings suggest that tuberculosis vaccines such as CysVac2/Advax that are capable of eliciting Th17 lung-resident memory T cells are promising candidates for progression to human trials."},"33301675":{"title":"Developing Translational Vaccines against Heroin and Fentanyl through Investigation of Adjuvants and Stability.","abstract":"The nearly insurmountable adversity that accompanies opioid use disorder (OUD) creates life-altering complications for opioid users. To worsen matters, existing small-molecule drugs continue to inadequately address OUD due to their engagement of the opioid receptor, which can leave the user to deal with side effects and financial hardships from their repeated use. An alternative therapeutic approach utilizes endogenously generated antibodies through active vaccination to reduce the effect of opioids without modulating the opioid receptor. Here, we explore different adjuvants and storage conditions to improve opioid vaccine efficacy and shelf life. Our results revealed that inulin-based formulations (Advax) containing a CpG oligodeoxynucleotide (ODN) acted as effective adjuvants when combined with a heroin conjugate: immunized mice showed excellent recovery from heroin-induced antinociception accompanied by high titer, high opioid affinity serum antibodies similar to the immunopotentiating properties of traditional alum-based adjuvants. Moreover, nonhuman primates vaccinated with a heroin/fentanyl combination vaccine demonstrated potent antibody responses against opioids when formulated with both inulin and alum adjuvants. Finally, storing a freeze-dried opioid vaccine formulation maintained efficacy for up 1 year at room temperature. The results from our studies represent an advance toward a clinically feasible opioid vaccine."},"33306991":{"title":"Safety and immunogenicity of the adjunct therapeutic vaccine ID93 + GLA-SE in adults who have completed treatment for tuberculosis: a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, phase 2a trial.","abstract":"A therapeutic vaccine that prevents recurrent tuberculosis would be a major advance in the development of shorter treatment regimens. We aimed to assess the safety and immunogenicity of the ID93 + GLA-SE vaccine at various doses and injection schedules in patients with previously treated tuberculosis. This randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, phase 2a trial was conducted at three clinical sites near Cape Town, South Africa. Patients were recruited at local clinics after receiving 4 months of tuberculosis treatment, and screened for eligibility after providing written informed consent. Participants were aged 18-60 years, BCG-vaccinated, HIV-uninfected, and diagnosed with drug-sensitive pulmonary tuberculosis. Eligible patients had completed standard treatment for pulmonary tuberculosis in the past 28 days. Participants were enrolled after completing standard treatment and randomly assigned sequentially to receive vaccine or placebo in three cohorts: 2 μg intramuscular ID93 + 2 μg GLA-SE on days 0 and 56 (cohort 1); 10 μg ID93 + 2 μg GLA-SE on days 0 and 56 (cohort 2); 2 μg ID93 + 5 μg GLA-SE on days 0 and 56 and placebo on day 28 (cohort 3); 2 μg ID93 + 5 μg GLA-SE on days 0, 28, and 56 (cohort 3); or placebo on days 0 and 56 (cohorts 1 and 2), with the placebo group for cohort 3 receiving an additional injection on day 28. Randomisation was in a ratio of 3:1 for ID93 + GLA-SE and saline placebo in cohorts 1 and 2, and in a ratio of 3:3:1 for (2 ×) ID93 + GLA-SE, (3 ×) ID93 + GLA-SE, and placebo in cohort 3. The primary outcomes were safety and immunogenicity (vaccine-specific antibody response and T-cell response). For the safety outcome, participants were observed for 30 min after each injection, injection site reactions and systemic adverse events were monitored until day 84, and serious adverse events and adverse events of special interest were monitored for 6 months after the last injection. Vaccine-specific antibody responses were measured by serum ELISA, and T-cell responses after stimulation with vaccine antigens were measured in cryopreserved peripheral blood mononuclear cells specimens using intracellular cytokine staining followed by flow cytometry. This study is registered with ClinicalTrials.gov, number NCT02465216. Between June 17, 2015, and May 30, 2016, we assessed 177 patients for inclusion. 61 eligible patients were randomly assigned to receive: saline placebo (n=5) or (2 ×) 2 μg ID93 + 2 μg GLA-SE (n=15) on days 0 and 56 (cohort 1); saline placebo (n=2) or (2 ×) 10 μg ID93 + 2 μg GLA-SE (n=5) on days 0 and 56 (cohort 2); saline placebo (n=5) on days 0, 28 and 56, or 2 μg ID93 + 5 μg GLA-SE (n=15) on days 0 and 56 and placebo injection on day 28, or (3 ×) 2 μg ID93 + 5 μg GLA-SE (n=14) on days 0, 28, and 56 (cohort 3). ID93 + GLA-SE induced robust and durable antibody responses and specific, polyfunctional CD4 T-cell responses to vaccine antigens. Two injections of the 2 μg ID93 + 5 μg GLA-SE dose induced antigen-specific IgG and CD4 T-cell responses that were significantly higher than those with placebo and persisted for the 6-month study duration. Mild to moderate injection site pain was reported after vaccination across all dose combinations, and induration and erythema in patients given 2 μg ID93 + 5 μg GLA-SE in two or three doses. One participant had grade 3 erythema and induration at the injection site. No vaccine-related serious adverse events were observed. Vaccination with ID93 + GLA-SE was safe and immunogenic for all tested regimens. These data support further evaluation of ID93 + GLA-SE in therapeutic vaccination strategies to improve tuberculosis treatment outcomes. Wellcome Trust (102028/Z/13/Z)."},"33309485":{"title":"Optimization of RG1-VLP vaccine performance in mice with novel TLR4 agonists.","abstract":"Current human papilloma virus (HPV) vaccines provide substantial protection against the most common HPV types responsible for oral and anogenital cancers, but many circulating cancer-causing types remain that lack vaccine coverage. The novel RG1-VLP (virus-like particle) vaccine candidate utilizes the HPV16-L1 subunit as a backbone to display an inserted HPV16-L2 17-36 a.a. \"RG1\" epitope; the L2 RG1 epitope is conserved across many HPV types and the generation of cross-neutralizing antibodies (Abs) against which has been demonstrated. In an effort to heighten the immunogenicity of the RG1-VLP vaccine, we compared in BALB/c mice adjuvant formulations consisting of novel bacterial enzymatic combinatorial chemistry (BECC)-derived toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) agonists and the aluminum hydroxide adjuvant Alhydrogel. In the presence of BECC molecules, consistent improvements in the magnitude of Ab responses to both HPV16-L1 and the L2 RG1 epitope were observed compared to Alhydrogel alone. Furthermore, neutralizing titers to HPV16 as well as cross-neutralization of pseudovirion (PsV) types HPV18 and HPV39 were augmented in the presence of BECC agonists as well. Levels of L1 and L2-specific Abs were achieved after two vaccinations with BECC/Alhydrogel adjuvant that were equivalent to or greater than levels achieved with 3 vaccinations with Alhydrogel alone, indicating that the presence of BECC molecules resulted in accelerated immune responses that could allow for a decreased dose schedule for VLP-based HPV vaccines. In addition, dose-sparing studies indicated that adjuvantation with BECC/Alhydrogel allowed for a 75% reduction in antigen dose while still retaining equivalent magnitudes of responses to the full VLP dose with Alhydrogel. These data suggest that adjuvant optimization of HPV VLP-based vaccines can lead to rapid immunity requiring fewer boosts, dose-sparing of VLPs expensive to produce, and the establishment of a longer-lasting humoral immunity."},"33324411":{"title":"Shaping Modern Vaccines: Adjuvant Systems Using MicroCrystalline Tyrosine (MCT®).","abstract":"The concept of adjuvants or adjuvant systems, used in vaccines, exploit evolutionary relationships associated with how the immune system may initially respond to a foreign antigen or pathogen, thus mimicking natural exposure. This is particularly relevant during the non-specific innate stage of the immune response; as such, the quality of this response may dictate specific adaptive responses and conferred memory/protection to that specific antigen or pathogen. Therefore, adjuvants may optimise this response in the most appropriate way for a specific disease. The most commonly used traditional adjuvants are aluminium salts; however, a biodegradable adjuvant, MCT®, was developed for application in the niche area of allergy immunotherapy (AIT), also in combination with a TLR-4 adjuvant-Monophosphoryl Lipid A (MPL®)-producing the first adjuvant system approach for AIT in the clinic. In the last decade, the use and effectiveness of MCT® across a variety of disease models in the preclinical setting highlight it as a promising platform for adjuvant systems, to help overcome the challenges of modern vaccines. A consequence of bringing together, for the first time, a unified view of MCT® mode-of-action from multiple experiments and adjuvant systems will help facilitate future rational design of vaccines while shaping their success."},"33352684":{"title":"Applying Microfluidics for the Production of the Cationic Liposome-Based Vaccine Adjuvant CAF09b.","abstract":"Subunit vaccines require particulate adjuvants to induce the desired immune responses. Pre-clinical manufacturing methods of adjuvants are often batch dependent, which complicates scale-up for large-scale good manufacturing practice (GMP) production. The cationic liposomal adjuvant CAF09b, composed of dioctadecyldimethylammonium bromide (DDA), monomycoloyl glycerol analogue 1 (MMG) and polyinosinic:polycytidylic acid [poly(I:C)], is currently being clinically evaluated in therapeutic cancer vaccines. Microfluidics is a promising new method for large-scale manufacturing of particle-based medicals, which is scalable from laboratory to GMP production, and a protocol for production of CAF09b by this method was therefore validated. The influence of the manufacture parameters [Ethanol] (20-40% v/v), [Lipid] (DDA and MMG, 6-12 mg/mL) and dimethyl sulfoxide [DMSO] (0-10% v/v) on the resulting particle size, colloidal stability and adsorption of poly(I:C) was evaluated in a design-of-experiments study. [Ethanol] and [DMSO] affected the resulting particle sizes, while [Lipid] and [DMSO] affected the colloidal stability. In all samples, poly(I:C) was encapsulated within the liposomes. At [Ethanol] 30% v/v, most formulations were stable at 21 days of manufacture with particle sizes <100 nm. An in vivo comparison in mice of the immunogenicity to the cervical cancer peptide antigen HPV-16 E7 adjuvanted with CAF09b prepared by lipid film rehydration or microfluidics showed no difference between the formulations, indicating adjuvant activity is intact. Thus, it is possible to prepare suitable formulations of CAF09b by microfluidics."},"33422991":{"title":"Adjuvanted SARS-CoV-2 spike protein elicits neutralizing antibodies and CD4 T cell responses after a single immunization in mice.","abstract":"SARS-CoV-2 has caused a global pandemic, infecting millions of people. A safe, effective vaccine is urgently needed and remains a global health priority. Subunit vaccines are used successfully against other viruses when administered in the presence of an effective adjuvant. We evaluated three different clinically tested adjuvant systems in combination with the SARS-CoV-2 pre-fusion stabilized (S-2P) spike protein using a one-dose regimen in mice. Whilst spike protein alone was only weakly immunogenic, the addition of either Aluminum hydroxide, a squalene based oil-in-water emulsion system (SE) or a cationic liposome-based adjuvant significantly enhanced antibody responses against the spike receptor binding domain (RBD). Kinetics of antibody responses differed, with SE providing the most rapid response. Neutralizing antibodies developed after a single immunization in all adjuvanted groups with ID50 titers ranging from 86-4063. Spike-specific CD4 T helper responses were also elicited, comprising mainly of IFN-γ and IL-17 producing cells in the cationic liposome adjuvanted group, and more IL-5- and IL-10-secreting cells in the AH group. These results demonstrate that adjuvanted spike protein subunit vaccine is a viable strategy for rapidly eliciting SARS-CoV-2 neutralizing antibodies and CD4 T cell responses of various qualities depending on the adjuvant used, which can be explored in further vaccine development against COVID-19. This work was supported by the European Union Horizon 2020 research and innovation program under grant agreement no. 101003653."},"33444400":{"title":"Carbomer-based adjuvant elicits CD8 T-cell immunity by inducing a distinct metabolic state in cross-presenting dendritic cells.","abstract":"There is a critical need for adjuvants that can safely elicit potent and durable T cell-based immunity to intracellular pathogens. Here, we report that parenteral vaccination with a carbomer-based adjuvant, Adjuplex (ADJ), stimulated robust CD8 T-cell responses to subunit antigens and afforded effective immunity against respiratory challenge with a virus and a systemic intracellular bacterial infection. Studies to understand the metabolic and molecular basis for ADJ's effect on antigen cross-presentation by dendritic cells (DCs) revealed several unique and distinctive mechanisms. ADJ-stimulated DCs produced IL-1β and IL-18, suggestive of inflammasome activation, but in vivo activation of CD8 T cells was unaffected in caspase 1-deficient mice. Cross-presentation induced by TLR agonists requires a critical switch to anabolic metabolism, but ADJ enhanced cross presentation without this metabolic switch in DCs. Instead, ADJ induced in DCs, an unique metabolic state, typified by dampened oxidative phosphorylation and basal levels of glycolysis. In the absence of increased glycolytic flux, ADJ modulated multiple steps in the cytosolic pathway of cross-presentation by enabling accumulation of degraded antigen, reducing endosomal acidity and promoting antigen localization to early endosomes. Further, by increasing ROS production and lipid peroxidation, ADJ promoted antigen escape from endosomes to the cytosol for degradation by proteasomes into peptides for MHC I loading by TAP-dependent pathways. Furthermore, we found that induction of lipid bodies (LBs) and alterations in LB composition mediated by ADJ were also critical for DC cross-presentation. Collectively, our model challenges the prevailing metabolic paradigm by suggesting that DCs can perform effective DC cross-presentation, independent of glycolysis to induce robust T cell-dependent protective immunity to intracellular pathogens. These findings have strong implications in the rational development of safe and effective immune adjuvants to potentiate robust T-cell based immunity."},"33465933":{"title":"Silk Fibroin Microneedles for Transdermal Vaccine Delivery.","abstract":"Microneedles represent an exciting departure from the existing parenteral injection paradigm for drug delivery, particularly for the administration of vaccines. While the benefit of delivering vaccine antigens to immunocompetent tissue in the skin has been established, there have been varying degrees of success using microneedles to do so. Here, we investigate the use of silk fibroin protein to produce microneedles and evaluate their ability to deliver vaccines against influenza, Clostridium difficile, and Shigella. Fibroin protein from the silkworm Bombyx mori possesses suitable properties for use in a microneedle system, including all-aqueous processing, mechanical strength in dried formats, biocompatibility, and the ability to temperature stabilize biomacromolecules. As such, this biomaterial combines the processing and biocompatibility advantages of a dissolving microneedle system with the product stability and mechanical strength of coated insoluble microneedles. Through successful vaccination of mice against three separate antigens, we establish that silk fibroin is well-suited for use as a solid-coated microneedle delivery system and offers long-term potential similar to that of the leading microneedle biomaterials."},"33479242":{"title":"An epitope-based malaria vaccine targeting the junctional region of circumsporozoite protein.","abstract":"A malaria vaccine that elicits long-lasting protection and is suitable for use in endemic areas remains urgently needed. Here, we assessed the immunogenicity and prophylactic efficacy of a vaccine targeting a recently described epitope on the major surface antigen on Plasmodium falciparum sporozoites, circumsporozoite protein (CSP). Using a virus-like particle (VLP)-based vaccine platform technology, we developed a vaccine that targets the junctional region between the N-terminal and central repeat regions of CSP. This region is recognized by monoclonal antibodies, including mAb CIS43, that have been shown to potently prevent liver invasion in animal models. We show that CIS43 VLPs elicit high-titer and long-lived anti-CSP antibody responses in mice and is immunogenic in non-human primates. In mice, vaccine immunogenicity was enhanced by using mixed adjuvant formulations. Immunization with CIS43 VLPs conferred partial protection from malaria infection in a mouse model, and passive transfer of serum from immunized macaques also inhibited parasite liver invasion in the mouse infection model. Our findings demonstrate that a Qβ VLP-based vaccine targeting the CIS43 epitope combined with various adjuvants is highly immunogenic in mice and macaques, elicits long-lasting anti-CSP antibodies, and inhibits parasite infection in a mouse model. Thus, the CIS43 VLP vaccine is a promising pre-erythrocytic malaria vaccine candidate."},"33485467":{"title":"Optimism and caution for an inactivated COVID-19 vaccine.","abstract":""},"33485468":{"title":"Safety and immunogenicity of an inactivated SARS-CoV-2 vaccine, BBV152: a double-blind, randomised, phase 1 trial.","abstract":"To mitigate the effects of COVID-19, a vaccine is urgently needed. BBV152 is a whole-virion inactivated SARS-CoV-2 vaccine formulated with a toll-like receptor 7/8 agonist molecule adsorbed to alum (Algel-IMDG) or alum (Algel). We did a double-blind, multicentre, randomised, controlled phase 1 trial to assess the safety and immunogenicity of BBV152 at 11 hospitals across India. Healthy adults aged 18-55 years who were deemed healthy by the investigator were eligible. Individuals with positive SARS-CoV-2 nucleic acid and/or serology tests were excluded. Participants were randomly assigned to receive either one of three vaccine formulations (3 μg with Algel-IMDG, 6 μg with Algel-IMDG, or 6 μg with Algel) or an Algel only control vaccine group. Block randomisation was done with a web response platform. Participants and investigators were masked to treatment group allocation. Two intramuscular doses of vaccines were administered on day 0 (the day of randomisation) and day 14. Primary outcomes were solicited local and systemic reactogenicity events at 2 h and 7 days after vaccination and throughout the full study duration, including serious adverse events. Secondary outcome was seroconversion (at least four-fold increase from baseline) based on wild-type virus neutralisation. Cell-mediated responses were evaluated by intracellular staining and ELISpot. The trial is registered at ClinicalTrials.gov (NCT04471519). Between July 13 and 30, 2020, 827 participants were screened, of whom 375 were enrolled. Among the enrolled participants, 100 each were randomly assigned to the three vaccine groups, and 75 were randomly assigned to the control group (Algel only). After both doses, solicited local and systemic adverse reactions were reported by 17 (17%; 95% CI 10·5-26·1) participants in the 3 μg with Algel-IMDG group, 21 (21%; 13·8-30·5) in the 6 μg with Algel-IMDG group, 14 (14%; 8·1-22·7) in the 6 μg with Algel group, and ten (10%; 6·9-23·6) in the Algel-only group. The most common solicited adverse events were injection site pain (17 [5%] of 375 participants), headache (13 [3%]), fatigue (11 [3%]), fever (nine [2%]), and nausea or vomiting (seven [2%]). All solicited adverse events were mild (43 [69%] of 62) or moderate (19 [31%]) and were more frequent after the first dose. One serious adverse event of viral pneumonitis was reported in the 6 μg with Algel group, unrelated to the vaccine. Seroconversion rates (%) were 87·9, 91·9, and 82·8 in the 3 μg with Algel-IMDG, 6 μg with Algel-IMDG, and 6 μg with Algel groups, respectively. CD4+ and CD8+ T-cell responses were detected in a subset of 16 participants from both Algel-IMDG groups. BBV152 led to tolerable safety outcomes and enhanced immune responses. Both Algel-IMDG formulations were selected for phase 2 immunogenicity trials. Further efficacy trials are warranted. Bharat Biotech International."},"33494963":{"title":"Low dose recombinant full-length circumsporozoite protein-based Plasmodium falciparum vaccine is well-tolerated and highly immunogenic in phase 1 first-in-human clinical testing.","abstract":"Plasmodium falciparum circumsporozoite protein (CSP) is a major sporozoite surface protein and a key target of pre-erythrocytic malaria subunit vaccines. A full-length recombinant CSP (rCSP) based strategy could be advantageous, as this antigen includes a region critical to sporozoite cell attachment and hepatocyte invasion. The adjuvant Glucopyranosyl Lipid A-liposome Quillaja saponaria 21 (GLA-LSQ) functions as a TLR4 agonist, promotes antigen-specific TH1 responses and stimulates cytotoxic T cell production. To date, one study has reported the clinical acceptability of GLA-LSQ. We present interim results of a phase 1 first-in-human dose-escalation clinical trial of full-length rCSP vaccine given with or without GLA-LSQ adjuvant. Participants experienced only mild to moderate related solicited adverse events. The lowest adjuvanted vaccine dose achieved >90-fold rise in geometric mean anti-CSP IgG antibody titer. These favorable safety and immunogenicity results confirm the immunostimulatory capacity of this relatively new adjuvant and support next steps in clinical product development. Trial registration: ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier NCT03589794 (registered 18 July 2018)."},"33498352":{"title":"Bacterial-Derived Outer Membrane Vesicles are Potent Adjuvants that Drive Humoral and Cellular Immune Responses.","abstract":"Discovery and development of novel adjuvants that can improve existing or next generation vaccine platforms have received considerable interest in recent years. In particular, adjuvants that can elicit both humoral and cellular immune responses would be particularly advantageous because the majority of licensed vaccines are formulated with aluminum hydroxide (alum) which predominantly promotes antibodies. We previously demonstrated that bacterial-derived outer membrane vesicles (OMV) possess inherent adjuvanticity and drive antigen-specific antibody and cellular immune responses to OMV components. Here, we investigated the ability of OMVs to stimulate innate and adaptive immunity and to function as a stand-alone adjuvant. We show that OMVs are more potent than heat-inactivated and live-attenuated bacteria in driving dendritic cell activation in vitro and in vivo. Mice immunized with OMVs admixed with heterologous peptides generated peptide-specific CD4 and CD8 T cells responses. Notably, OMV adjuvant induced much greater antibody and B cell responses to co-delivered ovalbumin compared to the responses elicited by the adjuvants alum and CpG DNA. Additionally, pre-existing antibodies raised against the OMVs did not impair OMV adjuvanticity upon repeat immunization. These results indicate that vaccines adjuvanted with OMVs elicit robust cellular and humoral immune responses, supporting further development of OMV adjuvant for use in next-generation vaccines."},"33521604":{"title":"Immunogenicity and protective efficacy of BBV152, whole virion inactivated SARS- CoV-2 vaccine candidates in the Syrian hamster model.","abstract":"The availability of a safe and effective vaccine would be the eventual measure to deal with severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus-2 (SARS-CoV-2) threat. Here, we have assessed the immunogenicity and protective efficacy of inactivated SARS-CoV-2 vaccine candidates BBV152A, BBV152B, and BBV152C in Syrian hamsters. Three dose vaccination regimes with vaccine candidates induced significant titers of SARS-CoV-2-specific IgG and neutralizing antibodies. BBV152A and BBV152B vaccine candidates remarkably generated a quick and robust immune response. Post-SARS-CoV-2 infection, vaccinated hamsters did not show any histopathological changes in the lungs. The protection of the hamster was evident by the rapid clearance of the virus from lower respiratory tract, reduced virus load in upper respiratory tract, absence of lung pathology, and robust humoral immune response. These findings confirm the immunogenic potential of the vaccine candidates and further protection of hamsters challenged with SARS-CoV-2. Of the three candidates, BBV152A showed the better response."},"33542494":{"title":"Intrapulmonary vaccination with delta-inulin adjuvant stimulates non-polarised chemotactic signalling and diverse cellular interaction.","abstract":"There is an urgent need for novel vaccination strategies to combat respiratory pathogens. Mucosal vaccine delivery is an attractive option as it directly targets the site of infection; however, preclinical development has been hindered by a lack of suitable mucosal adjuvants and a limited understanding of their immune effects in the lung environment. Herein, we define the early immune events following the intrapulmonary delivery of a vaccine incorporating the adjuvant delta-inulin. Analysis of the early inflammatory response showed vaccine-induced innate cell recruitment to lungs and local lymph nodes (LN) was transient and non-polarised, correlating with an increase in pulmonary chemotactic factors. Use of fluorescently labelled adjuvant revealed widespread tissue dissemination of adjuvant particles, coupled with broad cellular uptake and transit to the lung-draining LN by a range of innate immune cells. Mass cytometric analysis revealed extensive phenotypic changes in innate and adaptive cell subsets induced by vaccination; this included identification of unconventional lymphocytes such as γδ-T cells and MAIT cells that increased following vaccination and displayed an activated phenotype. This study details a comprehensive view of the immune response to intrapulmonary adjuvant administration and provides pre-clinical evidence to support delta-inulin as a suitable adjuvant for pulmonary vaccines."},"33654090":{"title":"Immunogenicity and protective efficacy of inactivated SARS-CoV-2 vaccine candidate, BBV152 in rhesus macaques.","abstract":"The COVID-19 pandemic is a global health crisis that poses a great challenge to the public health system of affected countries. Safe and effective vaccines are needed to overcome this crisis. Here, we develop and assess the protective efficacy and immunogenicity of an inactivated SARS-CoV-2 vaccine in rhesus macaques. Twenty macaques were divided into four groups of five animals each. One group was administered a placebo, while three groups were immunized with three different vaccine candidates of BBV152 at 0 and 14 days. All the macaques were challenged with SARS-CoV-2 fourteen days after the second dose. The protective response was observed with increasing SARS-CoV-2 specific IgG and neutralizing antibody titers from 3rd-week post-immunization. Viral clearance was observed from bronchoalveolar lavage fluid, nasal swab, throat swab and lung tissues at 7 days post-infection in the vaccinated groups. No evidence of pneumonia was observed by histopathological examination in vaccinated groups, unlike the placebo group which exhibited interstitial pneumonia and localization of viral antigen in the alveolar epithelium and macrophages by immunohistochemistry. This vaccine candidate BBV152 has completed Phase I/II (NCT04471519) clinical trials in India and is presently in phase III, data of this study substantiates the immunogenicity and protective efficacy of the vaccine candidates."},"33677092":{"title":"mRNA-encoded, constitutively active STINGV155M is a potent genetic adjuvant of antigen-specific CD8+ T cell response.","abstract":"mRNA vaccines induce potent immune responses in preclinical models and clinical studies. Adjuvants are used to stimulate specific components of the immune system to increase immunogenicity of vaccines. We utilized a constitutively active mutation (V155M) of the stimulator of interferon (IFN) genes (STING), which had been described in a patient with STING-associated vasculopathy with onset in infancy (SAVI), to act as a genetic adjuvant for use with our lipid nanoparticle (LNP)-encapsulated mRNA vaccines. mRNA-encoded constitutively active STINGV155M was most effective at maximizing CD8+ T cell responses at an antigen/adjuvant mass ratio of 5:1. STINGV155M appears to enhance development of antigen-specific T cells by activating type I IFN responses via the nuclear factor κB (NF-κB) and IFN-stimulated response element (ISRE) pathways. mRNA-encoded STINGV155M increased the efficacy of mRNA vaccines encoding the E6 and E7 oncoproteins of human papillomavirus (HPV), leading to reduced HPV+ TC-1 tumor growth and prolonged survival in vaccinated mice. This proof-of-concept study demonstrated the utility of an mRNA-encoded genetic adjuvant."},"33688645":{"title":"Recombinant protein subunit SARS-CoV-2 vaccines formulated with CoVaccine HT adjuvant induce broad, Th1 biased, humoral and cellular immune responses in mice.","abstract":"The speed at which several COVID-19 vaccines went from conception to receiving FDA and EMA approval for emergency use is an achievement unrivaled in the history of vaccine development. Mass vaccination efforts using the highly effective vaccines are currently underway to generate sufficient herd immunity and reduce transmission of the SARS-CoV-2 virus. Despite the most advanced vaccine technology, global recipient coverage, especially in resource-poor areas remains a challenge as genetic drift in naïve population pockets threatens overall vaccine efficacy. In this study, we described the production of insect-cell expressed SARS-CoV-2 spike protein ectodomain and examined its immunogenicity in mice. We demonstrated that, when formulated with CoVaccine HT™adjuvant, an oil-in-water nanoemulsion compatible with lyophilization, our vaccine candidates elicit a broad-spectrum IgG response, high neutralizing antibody titers, and a robust, antigen-specific IFN-γ secreting response from immune splenocytes in outbred mice. Our findings lay the foundation for the development of a dry-thermostabilized vaccine that is deployable without refrigeration."},"33688647":{"title":"Engineered SARS-CoV-2 receptor binding domain improves immunogenicity in mice and elicits protective immunity in hamsters.","abstract":"Global containment of COVID-19 still requires accessible and affordable vaccines for low- and middle-income countries (LMICs).1 Recently approved vaccines provide needed interventions, albeit at prices that may limit their global access.2 Subunit vaccines based on recombinant proteins are suited for large-volume microbial manufacturing to yield billions of doses annually, minimizing their manufacturing costs.3 These types of vaccines are well-established, proven interventions with multiple safe and efficacious commercial examples.4-6 Many vaccine candidates of this type for SARS-CoV-2 rely on sequences containing the receptor-binding domain (RBD), which mediates viral entry to cells via ACE2.7,8 Here we report an engineered sequence variant of RBD that exhibits high-yield manufacturability, high-affinity binding to ACE2, and enhanced immunogenicity after a single dose in mice compared to the Wuhan-Hu-1 variant used in current vaccines. Antibodies raised against the engineered protein exhibited heterotypic binding to the RBD from two recently reported SARS-CoV-2 variants of concern (501Y.V1/V2). Presentation of the engineered RBD on a designed virus-like particle (VLP) also reduced weight loss in hamsters upon viral challenge."},"33705411":{"title":"Prophylactic efficacy against Mycobacterium tuberculosis using ID93 and lipid-based adjuvant formulations in the mouse model.","abstract":"An estimated 10 million people developed tuberculosis (TB) disease in 2019 which underscores the need for a vaccine that prevents disease and reduces transmission. The aim of our current studies is to characterize and test a prophylactic tuberculosis vaccine comprised of ID93, a polyprotein fusion antigen, and a liposomal formulation [including a synthetic TLR4 agonist (glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant, GLA) and QS-21] in a preclinical mouse model of TB disease. Comparisons of the ID93+GLA-LSQ vaccines are also made to the highly characterized ID93+GLA-SE oil-in-water emulsion adjuvant, which are also included these studies. The recent success of vaccine candidate M72 combined with adjuvant AS01E (GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals) in reducing progression to active disease is promising and has renewed excitement for experimental vaccines currently in the TB vaccine pipeline. The AS01E adjuvant contains monophosphoryl lipid A (MPL) and QS-21 (a saponin) in a liposomal formulation. While AS01E has demonstrated potent adjuvant activity as a component of both approved and experimental vaccines, developing alternatives to this adjuvant system will become important to fill the high demand envisioned for future vaccine needs. Furthermore, replacement sources of potent adjuvants will help to supply the demand of a TB vaccine [almost one-quarter of the world's population are estimated to have latent Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) according to the WHO 2019 global TB report], addressing (a) cost of goods, (b) supply of goods, and (c) improved efficacy of subunit vaccines against Mtb. We show that both ID93+GLA-SE (containing an emulsion adjuvant) and ID93+GLA-LSQ (containing a liposomal adjuvant) induce ID93-specific TH1 cellular immunity including CD4+CD44+ T cells expressing IFNγ, TNF, and IL-2 (using flow cytometry and intracellular cytokine staining) and vaccine-specific IgG2 antibody responses (using an ELISA). In addition, both ID93+GLA-SE and ID93+GLA-LSQ effectively decrease the bacterial load within the lungs of mice infected with Mtb. Formulations based on this liposomal adjuvant formulation may provide an alternative to AS01 adjuvant systems."},"33705608":{"title":"Adjuvant-mediated enhancement of the immune response to HIV vaccines.","abstract":"Protection from human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) acquisition will likely require an effective vaccine that elicits antibodies against the HIV-1 envelope glycoproteins (Envs), which are the sole target of neutralizing antibodies and a main focus of vaccine development. Adjuvants have been widely used to augment the magnitude and longevity of the adaptive immune responses to immunizations with HIV-1 Envs and to guide the development of specific immune responses. Here, we review the adjuvants that have been used in combination with HIV-1 Envs in several preclinical and human clinical trials in recent years. We summarize the interactions between the HIV-1 Envs and adjuvants, and highlight the routes of vaccine administration for various formulations. We then discuss the use of combinations of different adjuvants, the potential effect of adjuvants on the elicitation of antibodies enriched in somatic hypermutation and containing long complementarity-determining region 3 of the antibody heavy chain, and the elicitation of non-neutralizing antibodies."},"33705727":{"title":"Safety and immunogenicity of an inactivated SARS-CoV-2 vaccine, BBV152: interim results from a double-blind, randomised, multicentre, phase 2 trial, and 3-month follow-up of a double-blind, randomised phase 1 trial.","abstract":"BBV152 is a whole-virion inactivated SARS-CoV-2 vaccine (3 μg or 6 μg) formulated with a toll-like receptor 7/8 agonist molecule (IMDG) adsorbed to alum (Algel). We previously reported findings from a double-blind, multicentre, randomised, controlled phase 1 trial on the safety and immunogenicity of three different formulations of BBV152 (3 μg with Algel-IMDG, 6 μg with Algel-IMDG, or 6 μg with Algel) and one Algel-only control (no antigen), with the first dose administered on day 0 and the second dose on day 14. The 3 μg and 6 μg with Algel-IMDG formulations were selected for this phase 2 study. Herein, we report interim findings of the phase 2 trial on the immunogenicity and safety of BBV152, with the first dose administered on day 0 and the second dose on day 28. We did a double-blind, randomised, multicentre, phase 2 clinical trial to evaluate the immunogenicity and safety of BBV152 in healthy adults and adolescents (aged 12-65 years) at nine hospitals in India. Participants with positive SARS-CoV-2 nucleic acid and serology tests were excluded. Participants were randomly assigned (1:1) to receive either 3 μg with Algel-IMDG or 6 μg with Algel-IMDG. Block randomisation was done by use of an interactive web response system. Participants, investigators, study coordinators, study-related personnel, and the sponsor were masked to treatment group allocation. Two intramuscular doses of vaccine were administered on day 0 and day 28. The primary outcome was SARS-CoV-2 wild-type neutralising antibody titres and seroconversion rates (defined as a post-vaccination titre that was at least four-fold higher than the baseline titre) at 4 weeks after the second dose (day 56), measured by use of the plaque-reduction neutralisation test (PRNT50) and the microneutralisation test (MNT50). The primary outcome was assessed in all participants who had received both doses of the vaccine. Cell-mediated responses were a secondary outcome and were assessed by T-helper-1 (Th1)/Th2 profiling at 2 weeks after the second dose (day 42). Safety was assessed in all participants who received at least one dose of the vaccine. In addition, we report immunogenicity results from a follow-up blood draw collected from phase 1 trial participants at 3 months after they received the second dose (day 104). This trial is registered at ClinicalTrials.gov, NCT04471519. Between Sept 5 and 12, 2020, 921 participants were screened, of whom 380 were enrolled and randomly assigned to the 3 μg with Algel-IMDG group (n=190) or 6 μg with Algel-IMDG group (n=190). Geometric mean titres (GMTs; PRNT50) at day 56 were significantly higher in the 6 μg with Algel-IMDG group (197·0 [95% CI 155·6-249·4]) than the 3 μg with Algel-IMDG group (100·9 [74·1-137·4]; p=0·0041). Seroconversion based on PRNT50 at day 56 was reported in 171 (92·9% [95% CI 88·2-96·2] of 184 participants in the 3 μg with Algel-IMDG group and 174 (98·3% [95·1-99·6]) of 177 participants in the 6 μg with Algel-IMDG group. GMTs (MNT50) at day 56 were 92·5 (95% CI 77·7-110·2) in the 3 μg with Algel-IMDG group and 160·1 (135·8-188·8) in the 6 μg with Algel-IMDG group. Seroconversion based on MNT50 at day 56 was reported in 162 (88·0% [95% CI 82·4-92·3]) of 184 participants in the 3 μg with Algel-IMDG group and 171 (96·6% [92·8-98·8]) of 177 participants in the 6 μg with Algel-IMDG group. The 3 μg with Algel-IMDG and 6 μg with Algel-IMDG formulations elicited T-cell responses that were biased to a Th1 phenotype at day 42. No significant difference in the proportion of participants who had a solicited local or systemic adverse reaction in the 3 μg with Algel-IMDG group (38 [20·0%; 95% CI 14·7-26·5] of 190) and the 6 μg with Algel-IMDG group (40 [21·1%; 15·5-27·5] of 190) was observed on days 0-7 and days 28-35; no serious adverse events were reported in the study. From the phase 1 trial, 3-month post-second-dose GMTs (MNT50) were 39·9 (95% CI 32·0-49·9) in the 3μg with Algel-IMDG group, 69·5 (53·7-89·9) in the 6 μg with Algel-IMDG group, 53·3 (40·1-71·0) in the 6 μg with Algel group, and 20·7 (14·5-29·5) in the Algel alone group. In the phase 1 trial, BBV152 induced high neutralising antibody responses that remained elevated in all participants at 3 months after the second vaccination. In the phase 2 trial, BBV152 showed better reactogenicity and safety outcomes, and enhanced humoral and cell-mediated immune responses compared with the phase 1 trial. The 6 μg with Algel-IMDG formulation has been selected for the phase 3 efficacy trial. Bharat Biotech International. For the Hindi translation of the abstract see Supplementary Materials section."},"33735218":{"title":"Structural basis of Blastomyces Endoglucanase-2 adjuvancy in anti-fungal and -viral immunity.","abstract":"The development of safe subunit vaccines requires adjuvants that augment immunogenicity of non-replicating protein-based antigens. Current vaccines against infectious diseases preferentially induce protective antibodies driven by adjuvants such as alum. However, the contribution of antibody to host defense is limited for certain classes of infectious diseases such as fungi, whereas animal studies and clinical observations implicate cellular immunity as an essential component of the resolution of fungal pathogens. Here, we decipher the structural bases of a newly identified glycoprotein ligand of Dectin-2 with potent adjuvancy, Blastomyces endoglucanase-2 (Bl-Eng2). We also pinpoint the developmental steps of antigen-specific CD4+ and CD8+ T responses augmented by Bl-Eng2 including expansion, differentiation and tissue residency. Dectin-2 ligation led to successful systemic and mucosal vaccination against invasive fungal infection and Influenza A infection, respectively. O-linked glycans on Bl-Eng2 applied at the skin and respiratory mucosa greatly augment vaccine subunit- induced protective immunity against lethal influenza and fungal pulmonary challenge."},"33767689":{"title":"Polymeric Pathogen-Like Particles-Based Combination Adjuvants Elicit Potent Mucosal T Cell Immunity to Influenza A Virus.","abstract":"Eliciting durable and protective T cell-mediated immunity in the respiratory mucosa remains a significant challenge. Polylactic-co-glycolic acid (PLGA)-based cationic pathogen-like particles (PLPs) loaded with TLR agonists mimic biophysical properties of microbes and hence, simulate pathogen-pattern recognition receptor interactions to safely and effectively stimulate innate immune responses. We generated micro particle PLPs loaded with TLR4 (glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant, GLA) or TLR9 (CpG) agonists, and formulated them with and without a mucosal delivery enhancing carbomer-based nanoemulsion adjuvant (ADJ). These adjuvants delivered intranasally to mice elicited high numbers of influenza nucleoprotein (NP)-specific CD8+ and CD4+ effector and tissue-resident memory T cells (TRMs) in lungs and airways. PLPs delivering TLR4 versus TLR9 agonists drove phenotypically and functionally distinct populations of effector and memory T cells. While PLPs loaded with CpG or GLA provided immunity, combining the adjuvanticity of PLP-GLA and ADJ markedly enhanced the development of airway and lung TRMs and CD4 and CD8 T cell-dependent immunity to influenza virus. Further, balanced CD8 (Tc1/Tc17) and CD4 (Th1/Th17) recall responses were linked to effective influenza virus control. These studies provide mechanistic insights into vaccine-induced pulmonary T cell immunity and pave the way for the development of a universal influenza and SARS-CoV-2 vaccines."},"33782151":{"title":"Combination Adjuvants Affect the Magnitude of Effector-Like Memory CD8 T Cells and Protection against Listeriosis.","abstract":"The development of T cell-based subunit protein vaccines against diseases such as tuberculosis and malaria remains a challenge for immunologists. Here, we have identified a nanoemulsion adjuvant, Adjuplex (ADJ), which enhanced dendritic cell (DC) cross-presentation and elicited effective memory T cell-based immunity to Listeria monocytogenes. We further evaluated whether cross-presentation induced by ADJ can be combined with the immunomodulatory effects of Toll-like receptor (TLR) agonists (CpG or glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant [GLA]) to evoke systemic CD8 T cell-based immunity to L. monocytogenes. Mechanistically, vaccination with ADJ, alone or in combination with CpG or GLA, augmented activation and antigen uptake by CD103+ migratory and CD8α+ resident DCs and upregulated CD69 expression on B and T lymphocytes in vaccine-draining lymph nodes. By engaging basic leucine zipper ATF-like transcription factor 3-dependent cross-presenting DCs, ADJ potently elicited effector CD8 T cells that differentiated into granzyme B-expressing CD27LO effector-like memory CD8 T cells, which provided effective immunity to L. monocytogenes in the spleen and liver. CpG or GLA alone did not elicit effector-like memory CD8 T cells and induced moderate protection in the spleen but not in the liver. Surprisingly, combining CpG or GLA with ADJ reduced the number of ADJ-induced memory CD8 T cells and compromised protective immunity to L. monocytogenes, especially in the liver. Taken together, the data presented in this study provide a glimpse of protective CD8 T cell memory differentiation induced by a nanoemulsion adjuvant and demonstrate the unexpected negative effects of TLR signaling on the magnitude of CD8 T cell memory and protective immunity to L. monocytogenes, a model intracellular pathogen."},"33782574":{"title":"A combination of immunoadjuvant nanocomplexes and dendritic cell vaccines in the presence of immune checkpoint blockade for effective cancer immunotherapy.","abstract":""},"33824336":{"title":"Immunofocusing humoral immunity potentiates the functional efficacy of the AnAPN1 malaria transmission-blocking vaccine antigen.","abstract":"Malaria transmission-blocking vaccines (TBVs) prevent the completion of the developmental lifecycle of malarial parasites within the mosquito vector, effectively blocking subsequent infections. The mosquito midgut protein Anopheline alanyl aminopeptidase N (AnAPN1) is the leading, mosquito-based TBV antigen. Structure-function studies identified two Class II epitopes that can induce potent transmission-blocking (T-B) antibodies, informing the design of the next-generation AnAPN1. Here, we functionally screened new immunogens and down-selected to the UF6b construct that has two glycine-linked copies of the T-B epitopes. We then established a process for manufacturing UF6b and evaluated in outbred female CD1 mice the immunogenicity of the preclinical product with the human-safe adjuvant Glucopyranosyl Lipid Adjuvant in a liposomal formulation with saponin QS21 (GLA-LSQ). UF6b:GLA-LSQ effectively immunofocused the humoral response to one of the key T-B epitopes resulting in potent T-B activity, underscoring UF6b as a prime TBV candidate to aid in malaria elimination and eradication efforts."},"33828556":{"title":"Longitudinal CSF Findings in Autoimmune Encephalitis-A Monocentric Cohort Study.","abstract":"Autoimmune encephalitis (AIE) poses a diagnostic challenge due to its heterogeneous clinical presentation, which overlaps with various neurological and psychiatric diseases. During the diagnostic work-up, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) is routinely obtained, allowing for differential diagnostics as well as for the determination of antibody subclasses and specificities. In this monocentric cohort study, we describe initial and serial CSF findings of 33 patients diagnosed with antibody-associated AIE (LGI1 (n=8), NMDA (n=7), CASPR2 (n=3), IgLON5 (n=3), AMPAR (n=1), GAD65/67 (n=4), Yo (n=3), Ma-1/2 (n=2), CV2 (n=2)). Routine CSF parameters of 12.1% of AIE patients were in normal ranges, while 60.6% showed elevated protein levels and 45.4% had intrathecal oligoclonal bands (OCBs). Repeated CSF analyses showed a trend towards normalization of initial pathological CSF findings, while relapses were more likely to be associated with increased cell counts and total protein levels. OCB status conversion in anti-NMDARE patients coincided with clinical improvement. In summary, we show that in routine CSF analysis at diagnosis, a considerable number of patients with AIE did not exhibit alteration in the CSF and therefore, diagnosis may be delayed if antibody testing is not performed. Moreover, OCB status in anti-NMDAR AIE patients could represent a potential prognostic biomarker, however further studies are necessary to validate these exploratory findings."},"33883559":{"title":"Intranasal powder live attenuated influenza vaccine is thermostable, immunogenic, and protective against homologous challenge in ferrets.","abstract":"Influenza viruses cause annual seasonal epidemics and sporadic pandemics; vaccination is the most effective countermeasure. Intranasal live attenuated influenza vaccines (LAIVs) are needle-free, mimic the natural route of infection, and elicit robust immunity. However, some LAIVs require reconstitution and cold-chain requirements restrict storage and distribution of all influenza vaccines. We generated a dry-powder, thermostable LAIV (T-LAIV) using Preservation by Vaporization technology and assessed the stability, immunogenicity, and efficacy of T-LAIV alone or combined with delta inulin adjuvant (Advax™) in ferrets. Stability assays demonstrated minimal loss of T-LAIV titer when stored at 25 °C for 1 year. Vaccination of ferrets with T-LAIV alone or with delta inulin adjuvant elicited mucosal antibody and robust serum HI responses in ferrets, and was protective against homologous challenge. These results suggest that the Preservation by Vaporization-generated dry-powder vaccines could be distributed without refrigeration and administered without reconstitution or injection. Given these significant advantages for vaccine distribution and delivery, further research is warranted."},"33919442":{"title":"Advax-CpG Adjuvant Provides Antigen Dose-Sparing and Enhanced Immunogenicity for Inactivated Poliomyelitis Virus Vaccines.","abstract":"Global immunization campaigns have resulted in a major decline in the global incidence of polio cases, with wild-type poliovirus remaining endemic in only two countries. Live oral polio vaccine (OPV) played a role in the reduction in polio case numbers; however, the risk of OPV developing into circulating vaccine-derived poliovirus makes it unsuitable for eradication programs. Trivalent inactivated polio virus (TIPV) vaccines which contain formalin-inactivated antigens produced from virulent types 1, 2 and 3 reference polio strains grown in Vero monkey kidney cells have been advocated as a replacement for OPV; however, TIPVs have weak immunogenicity and multiple boosts are required before peak neutralizing titers are reached. This study examined whether the incorporation of the novel polysaccharide adjuvant, Advax-CpG, could boost the immunogenicity of two TIPV vaccines, (i) a commercially available polio vaccine (IPOL®, Sanofi Pasteur) and (ii) a new TIPV formulation developed by Statens Serum Institut (SSI). Mice were immunized intramuscularly based on recommended vaccine dosage schedules and serum antibody titers were followed for 12 months post-immunization. Advax-CpG significantly enhanced the long-term immunogenicity of both TIPV vaccines and had at least a 10-fold antigen dose-sparing effect. An exception was the poor ability of the SSI TIPV to induce serotype type 1 neutralizing antibodies. Immunization with monovalent IPVs suggested that the low type 1 response to TIPV may be due to antigen competition when the type 1 antigen was co-formulated with the type 2 and 3 antigens. This study provides valuable insights into the complexity of the formulation of multivalent polio vaccines and supports the further development of adjuvanted antigen-sparing TIPV vaccines in the fight to eradicate polio."},"33960213":{"title":"A novel gene therapy for neurodegenerative Lafora disease via EPM2A-loaded DLinDMA lipoplexes.","abstract":"Aim: To develop novel cationic liposomes as a nonviral gene delivery vector for the treatment of rare diseases, such as Lafora disease - a neurodegenerative epilepsy. Materials & methods: DLinDMA and DOTAP liposomes were formulated and characterized for the delivery of gene encoding laforin and expression of functional protein in HEK293 and neuroblastoma cells. Results: Liposomes with cationic lipids DLinDMA and DOTAP showed good physicochemical characteristics. Nanosized DLinDMA liposomes demonstrated desired transfection efficiency, negligible hemolysis and minimal cytotoxicity. Western blotting confirmed successful expression and glucan phosphatase assay demonstrated the biological activity of laforin. Conclusion: Our study is a novel preclinical effort in formulating cationic lipoplexes containing plasmid DNA for the therapy of rare genetic diseases such as Lafora disease."},"33971664":{"title":"Neutralizing antibody vaccine for pandemic and pre-emergent coronaviruses.","abstract":"Betacoronaviruses caused the outbreaks of severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and Middle East respiratory syndrome, as well as the current pandemic of SARS coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2)1-4. Vaccines that elicit protective immunity against SARS-CoV-2 and betacoronaviruses that circulate in animals have the potential to prevent future pandemics. Here we show that the immunization of macaques with nanoparticles conjugated with the receptor-binding domain of SARS-CoV-2, and adjuvanted with 3M-052 and alum, elicits cross-neutralizing antibody responses against bat coronaviruses, SARS-CoV and SARS-CoV-2 (including the B.1.1.7, P.1 and B.1.351 variants). Vaccination of macaques with these nanoparticles resulted in a 50% inhibitory reciprocal serum dilution (ID50) neutralization titre of 47,216 (geometric mean) for SARS-CoV-2, as well as in protection against SARS-CoV-2 in the upper and lower respiratory tracts. Nucleoside-modified mRNAs that encode a stabilized transmembrane spike or monomeric receptor-binding domain also induced cross-neutralizing antibody responses against SARS-CoV and bat coronaviruses, albeit at lower titres than achieved with the nanoparticles. These results demonstrate that current mRNA-based vaccines may provide some protection from future outbreaks of zoonotic betacoronaviruses, and provide a multimeric protein platform for the further development of vaccines against multiple (or all) betacoronaviruses."},"33986280":{"title":"Fentanyl conjugate vaccine by injected or mucosal delivery with dmLT or LTA1 adjuvants implicates IgA in protection from drug challenge.","abstract":"Fentanyl is a major contributor to the devastating increase in overdose deaths from substance use disorders (SUD). A vaccine targeting fentanyl could be a powerful immunotherapeutic. Here, we evaluated adjuvant and delivery strategies for conjugate antigen vaccination with fentanyl-based haptens. We tested adjuvants derived from the heat-labile toxin of E. coli including dmLT and LTA1 by intramuscular, sublingual or intranasal delivery. Our results show anti-fentanyl serum antibodies and antibody secreting cells in the bone-marrow after vaccination with highest levels observed with an adjuvant (alum, dmLT, or LTA1). Vaccine adjuvanted with LTA1 or dmLT elicited the highest levels of anti-fentanyl antibodies, whereas alum achieved highest levels against the carrier protein. Vaccination with sublingual dmLT or intranasal LTA1 provided the most robust blockade of fentanyl-induced analgesia and CNS penetration correlating strongly to anti-FEN IgA. In conclusion, this study demonstrates dmLT or LTA1 adjuvant as well as mucosal delivery may be attractive strategies for improving the efficacy of vaccines against SUD."},"34013552":{"title":"Sustained IL-4 priming of macrophages enhances the inflammatory response to TLR7/8 ligand R848.","abstract":"Macrophages (Mϕ) are highly plastic, and can acquire a variety of functional phenotypes depending on the presence of different stimuli in their local environment. Mφ stimulated by interleukin (IL)-4 induce an alternative activation state and function as anti-inflammatory cells and promote tissue repair. However, there is overwhelming evidence that IL-4 can play a role in promoting inflammation. In asthma and allergic inflammation, IL-4 mediates proinflammatory responses that lead to tissue damage. Thus the effect of IL-4 on the outcome of the immune responses is greatly influenced by other cofactors and cytokines present in the microenvironment. R848 (resiquimod), a TLR7/8 agonist is a novel vaccine adjuvant, triggering a strong Th1-skewed response but its efficacy as a vaccine adjuvant shows variable results. It is not currently known whether the presence of IL-4 can dampen or enhance immunity in response to TLR7 agonists. In the present study, we sought to investigate the impact of IL-4-induced Mφ polarization on the outcome of R848 stimulation. The activation marker expression and production of cytokines were measured in murine spleen-derived Mφ. Protein expression levels of innate recognition molecules and transcription factors involved, including retinoic-acid inducible gene I, mitochondrial antiviral signaling protein, stimulator of interferon genes (STING), and IFN regulatory factors were evaluated in activated Mφ. These play a crucial role in the control of viral replication and optimal CD8+ T cell priming. We report that sustained priming with IL-4 alone promotes an antiviral response in Mφ, and enhances proinflammatory responses to R848 treatment. This highlights the need for better understanding of IL-4 proinflammatory functions and its potential use as a broad-acting antiviral in combination with R848 may be used in combination with other therapies to target the innate arm of immunity against emerging infections."},"34031655":{"title":"Alum:CpG adjuvant enables SARS-CoV-2 RBD-induced protection in aged mice and synergistic activation of human elder type 1 immunity.","abstract":"Global deployment of vaccines that can provide protection across several age groups is still urgently needed to end the COVID-19 pandemic especially for low- and middle-income countries. While vaccines against SARS-CoV-2 based on mRNA and adenoviral-vector technologies have been rapidly developed, additional practical and scalable SARS-CoV-2 vaccines are needed to meet global demand. In this context, protein subunit vaccines formulated with appropriate adjuvants represent a promising approach to address this urgent need. Receptor-binding domain (RBD) is a key target of neutralizing antibodies (Abs) but is poorly immunogenic. We therefore compared pattern recognition receptor (PRR) agonists, including those activating STING, TLR3, TLR4 and TLR9, alone or formulated with aluminum hydroxide (AH), and benchmarked them to AS01B and AS03-like emulsion-based adjuvants for their potential to enhance RBD immunogenicity in young and aged mice. We found that the AH and CpG adjuvant formulation (AH:CpG) demonstrated the highest enhancement of anti-RBD neutralizing Ab titers in both age groups (∼80-fold over AH), and protected aged mice from the SARS-CoV-2 challenge. Notably, AH:CpG-adjuvanted RBD vaccine elicited neutralizing Abs against both wild-type SARS-CoV-2 and B.1.351 variant at serum concentrations comparable to those induced by the authorized mRNA BNT162b2 vaccine. AH:CpG induced similar cytokine and chemokine gene enrichment patterns in the draining lymph nodes of both young adult and aged mice and synergistically enhanced cytokine and chemokine production in human young adult and elderly mononuclear cells. These data support further development of AH:CpG-adjuvanted RBD as an affordable vaccine that may be effective across multiple age groups. Alum and CpG enhance SARS-CoV-2 RBD protective immunity, variant neutralization in aged mice and Th1-polarizing cytokine production by human elder leukocytes."},"34044110":{"title":"Adsorption of protein antigen to the cationic liposome adjuvant CAF®01 is required for induction of Th1 and Th17 responses but not for antibody induction.","abstract":"The degree of antigen adsorption to adjuvants in subunit vaccines may significantly influence the immune responses they induce upon vaccination. Commonly used approaches for studying how the level of adsorption affects the induction of antigen-specific immune responses include (i) using adjuvants with different abilities to adsorb antigens, and (ii) comparing different antigens selected based on their ability to adsorb to the adjuvant. A weakness of these approaches is that not only the antigen adsorption level is varied, but also other important functional factors such as adjuvant composition and/or the B/T cell epitopes, which may affect immunogenicity. Hence, we investigated how changing the adsorption capabilities of a single antigen to an adjuvant influenced the vaccine-induced immune responses. The model antigen lysozyme, which displays a positive net charge at physiological pH due to an isoelectric point (pI) of 11, was succinylated to different extents, resulting in a reduction of the pI value to 4.4-5.9, depending on the degree of succinylation. A pronounced inverse correlation was found between the pI value of the succinylated lysozyme analogues and the degree of adsorption to a cationic liposomal adjuvant consisting of dimethyldioctadecylammonium bromide (DDA) and trehalose dibehenate (TDB) (CAF®01). Furthermore, increased adsorption to this adjuvant correlated directly with the magnitude of lysozyme-specific Th1/Th17 immune responses induced by the vaccine in mice, while there was an inverse correlation with antibody induction. However, high lysozyme-specific antibody titers were induced with an increased antigen dose, even upon vaccination with a strongly adsorbed succinylated lysozyme analogue. Hence, these data illustrate that the degree of lysozyme adsorption to CAF®01 strongly affects the quality of the resulting immune responses."},"34058388":{"title":"Live-attenuated RNA hybrid vaccine technology provides single-dose protection against Chikungunya virus.","abstract":"We present a live-attenuated RNA hybrid vaccine technology that uses an RNA vaccine delivery vehicle to deliver in vitro-transcribed, full-length, live-attenuated viral genomes to the site of vaccination. This technology allows ready manufacturing in a cell-free environment, regardless of viral attenuation level, and it promises to avoid many safety and manufacturing challenges of traditional live-attenuated vaccines. We demonstrate this technology through development and testing of a live-attenuated RNA hybrid vaccine against Chikungunya virus (CHIKV), comprised of an in vitro-transcribed, highly attenuated CHIKV genome delivered by a highly stable nanostructured lipid carrier (NLC) formulation as an intramuscular injection. We demonstrate that single-dose immunization of immunocompetent C57BL/6 mice results in induction of high CHIKV-neutralizing antibody titers and protection against mortality and footpad swelling after lethal CHIKV challenge."},"34069575":{"title":"Immunogenicity of Adjuvanted Psoralen-Inactivated SARS-CoV-2 Vaccines and SARS-CoV-2 Spike Protein DNA Vaccines in BALB/c Mice.","abstract":"The development of a safe and effective vaccine to protect against COVID-19 is a global priority due to the current high SARS-CoV-2 infection rate. Currently, there are over 160 SARS-CoV-2 vaccine candidates at the clinical or pre-clinical stages of development. Of these, there are only three whole-virus vaccine candidates produced using β-propiolactone or formalin inactivation. Here, we prepared a whole-virus SARS-CoV-2 vaccine (SARS-CoV-2 PsIV) using a novel psoralen inactivation method and evaluated its immunogenicity in mice using two different adjuvants, alum and Advax-2. We compared the immunogenicity of SARS-CoV-2 PsIV against SARS-CoV-2 DNA vaccines expressing either full-length or truncated spike proteins. We also compared the psoralen-inactivated vaccine against a DNA prime, psoralen-inactivated vaccine boost regimen. After two doses, the psoralen-inactivated vaccine, when administered with alum or Advax-2 adjuvants, generated a dose-dependent neutralizing antibody responses in mice. Overall, the pattern of cytokine ELISPOT responses to antigen-stimulation observed in this study indicates that SARS-CoV-2 PsIV with the alum adjuvant promotes a Th2-type response, while SARS-CoV-2 PsIV with the Advax-2 adjuvant promotes a Th1-type response."},"34069796":{"title":"An Outer Membrane Vesicle-Adjuvanted Oral Vaccine Protects Against Lethal, Oral Salmonella Infection.","abstract":"Non-typhoidal salmonellosis, caused by Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium is a common fecal-oral disease characterized by mild gastrointestinal distress resulting in diarrhea, chills, fever, abdominal cramps, head and body aches, nausea, and vomiting. Increasing incidences of antibiotic resistant invasive non-typhoidal Salmonella infections makes this a global threat requiring novel treatment strategies including next-generation vaccines. The goal of the current study was to formulate a novel vaccine platform against Salmonella infection that could be delivered orally. To accomplish this, we created a Salmonella-specific vaccine adjuvanted with Burkholderia pseudomallei outer membrane vesicles (OMVs). We show that adding OMVs to a heat-killed oral Salmonella vaccine (HKST + OMVs) protects against a lethal, oral challenge with Salmonella. Further, we show that opsonizing anti-Salmonella antibodies are induced in response to immunization and that CD4 T cells and B cells can be induced when OMVs are used as the oral adjuvant. This study represents a novel oral vaccine approach to combatting the increasing problem of invasive Salmonella infections."},"34081944":{"title":"Immune adjuvant effects of interferon-gamma (IFN-γ) of flounder (Paralichthys olivaceus) against Edwardsiella tarda.","abstract":"IFN-γ plays a key role in T-cell activation and the establishment of the adaptive immune response, which has a potential as a cytokine adjuvant in the context of vaccination. In this study, we evaluated the immune adjuvant effects of two forms of flounder (Paralichthys olivaceus) IFN-γ, including pcDNA3.1-IFN-γ (pcIFN-γ) and recombinant IFN-γ (rIFN-γ), and comparatively analyzed the immune responses of flounder to E. tarda subunit vaccine rOmpV. The results showed that vaccination with rOmpV plus pcIFN-γ or rIFN-γ produced a relative percent survival of 57% and 71%, respectively, which were significantly higher than that of the control groups, rOmpV plus pcN3 (36%) or rHis (40%). Compared with the two control groups, vaccination with rOmpV plus pcIFN-γ or rIFN-γ could induce significantly higher levels of specific serum antibodies and sIg + lymphocytes in peripheral blood, spleen and head kidney, and significantly higher upregulated expressions of CD4-1, CD8α, IgM, MHC Ⅰα, MHC Ⅱα, IL-1β and TNF-α were also detected in rOmpV plus pcIFN-γ or rIFN-γ vaccinated fish. In addition, compared with pcIFN-γ, rOmpV co-vaccination with rIFN-γ elicited higher levels of sIg + lymphocytes, specific serum antibodies and several immune-related genes expressions in vaccinated flounder. These results demonstrated that rOmpV co-vaccination with rIFN-γ or pcIFN-γ could both boost the immune responses and evoke highly protective effects against E. tarda, indicating that flounder IFN-γ is a promising adjuvant candidate for fish vaccination via an injection administering route."},"34103211":{"title":"Safety and immunological effects of recombinant canine IL-15 in dogs.","abstract":"Interleukin-15 (IL-15) is a pleiotropic cytokine that plays pivotal roles in innate and adaptive immunity. It is also a promising cytokine for treating cancer. Despite growing interest in its use as an immunotherapeutic, its safety and immunological effects in dogs have not been reported. In this study, healthy dogs were given recombinant canine IL-15 (rcIL-15) intravenously at a daily dose of 20 μg/kg for 8 days and monitored for 32 days to determine the safety and immunological effects of rcIL-15. The repeated administration of rcIL-15 was well tolerated, did not cause any serious side effects, and promoted the selective proliferation and activation of canine anti-cancer effector cells, including CD3+CD8+ cytotoxic T lymphocytes, CD3+CD5dimCD21-, and non-B/non-T NK cell populations, without stimulating Treg lymphocytes. The rcIL-15 injections also stimulated the expression of molecules and transcription factors associated with the activation and effector functions of NK cells, including CD16, NKG2D, NKp30, NKp44, NKp46, perforin, granzyme B, Ly49, T-bet, and Eomes. These results suggest that rcIL-15 might be a valuable therapeutic adjuvant to improve immunity against cancer in dogs."},"34117252":{"title":"SARS-CoV-2 RBD trimer protein adjuvanted with Alum-3M-052 protects from SARS-CoV-2 infection and immune pathology in the lung.","abstract":"There is a great need for the development of vaccines that induce potent and long-lasting protective immunity against SARS-CoV-2. Multimeric display of the antigen combined with potent adjuvant can enhance the potency and longevity of the antibody response. The receptor binding domain (RBD) of the spike protein is a primary target of neutralizing antibodies. Here, we developed a trimeric form of the RBD and show that it induces a potent neutralizing antibody response against live virus with diverse effector functions and provides protection against SARS-CoV-2 challenge in mice and rhesus macaques. The trimeric form induces higher neutralizing antibody titer compared to monomer with as low as 1μg antigen dose. In mice, adjuvanting the protein with a TLR7/8 agonist formulation alum-3M-052 induces 100-fold higher neutralizing antibody titer and superior protection from infection compared to alum. SARS-CoV-2 infection causes significant loss of innate cells and pathology in the lung, and vaccination protects from changes in innate cells and lung pathology. These results demonstrate RBD trimer protein as a suitable candidate for vaccine against SARS-CoV-2."},"34131024":{"title":"SARS-CoV-2 vaccines elicit durable immune responses in infant rhesus macaques.","abstract":"The inclusion of infants in the SARS-CoV-2 vaccine roll-out is important to prevent severe complications of pediatric SARS-CoV-2 infections and to limit transmission and could possibly be implemented via the global pediatric vaccine schedule. However, age-dependent differences in immune function require careful evaluation of novel vaccines in the pediatric population. Toward this goal, we assessed the safety and immunogenicity of two SARS-CoV-2 vaccines. Two groups of 8 infant rhesus macaques (RMs) were immunized intramuscularly at weeks 0 and 4 with stabilized prefusion SARS-CoV-2 S-2P spike (S) protein encoded by mRNA encapsulated in lipid nanoparticles (mRNA-LNP) or the purified S protein mixed with 3M-052, a synthetic TLR7/8 agonist in a squalene emulsion (Protein+3M-052-SE). Neither vaccine induced adverse effects. Both vaccines elicited high magnitude IgG binding to RBD, N terminus domain, S1, and S2, ACE2 blocking activity, and high neutralizing antibody titers, all peaking at week 6. S-specific memory B cells were detected by week 4 and S-specific T cell responses were dominated by the production of IL-17, IFN-γ, or TNF-α. Antibody and cellular responses were stable through week 22. The immune responses for the mRNA-LNP vaccine were of a similar magnitude to those elicited by the Moderna mRNA-1273 vaccine in adults. The S-2P mRNA-LNP and Protein-3M-052-SE vaccines were well-tolerated and highly immunogenic in infant RMs, providing proof-of concept for a pediatric SARS-CoV-2 vaccine with the potential for durable immunity that might decrease the transmission of SARS-CoV-2 and mitigate the ongoing health and socioeconomic impacts of COVID-19."},"34158852":{"title":"Adjuvant-free peptide vaccine targeting Clec9a on dendritic cells can induce robust antitumor immune response through Syk/IL-21 axis.","abstract":"Dendritic cells (DCs) can process the antigens of cancer vaccine and thus stimulate the CD8+ T cells to recognize and kill the tumor cells that express these antigens. However, lack of promising carriers for presenting the antigens to DCs is one of the main barriers to the development of clinically effective cancer vaccines. Another limitation is the risk of inflammatory side effects induced by the adjuvants. It is still unclear how we can develop ideal adjuvant-free DC vaccine carriers without adjuvants. Methods: A 12-mer peptide carrier (CBP-12) with high affinity for Clec9a expressed on DCs was developed using an in silico rational optimization method. The therapeutic effects of the adjuvant-free vaccine comprising CBP-12 and exogenous or endogenous antigenic peptides were investigated in terms of antigen cross-presentation efficacy, specific cytotoxic T lymphocyte response, and antitumor activity. We also explored the mechanism involved in the antitumor effects of the adjuvant-free CBP-12 vaccine. Finally, we assessed the effects of the CBP-12 conjugated peptide vaccine combined with radiotherapy. Results: Here, we developed CBP-12 as a vaccine carrier that enhanced the uptake and cross-presentation of the antigens, thus inducing strong CD8+ T cell responses and antitumor effects in both anti-PD-1-responsive (B16-OVA) and -resistant (B16) models, even in adjuvant-free conditions. CBP-12 bound to and activated Clec9a, thereby stimulating Clec9a+ DC to product IL-21, but not IL-12 by activating of Syk. The antitumor effects of the CBP-12 conjugated peptide vaccines could be blocked by an IL-21 neutralizing antibody. We also observed the synergistic antitumor effects of the CBP-12 conjugated peptide vaccine combined with radiotherapy. Conclusions: CBP-12 could serve as an adjuvant-free peptide vaccine carrier for cancer immunotherapy."},"34248966":{"title":"Optimizing a Multi-Component Intranasal Entamoeba Histolytica Vaccine Formulation Using a Design of Experiments Strategy.","abstract":"Amebiasis is a neglected tropical disease caused by Entamoeba histolytica. Although the disease burden varies geographically, amebiasis is estimated to account for some 55,000 deaths and millions of infections globally per year. Children and travelers are among the groups with the greatest risk of infection. There are currently no licensed vaccines for prevention of amebiasis, although key immune correlates for protection have been proposed from observational studies in humans. We previously described the development of a liposomal adjuvant formulation containing two synthetic TLR ligands (GLA and 3M-052) that enhanced antigen-specific fecal IgA, serum IgG2a, a mixed IFNγ and IL-17A cytokine profile from splenocytes, and protective efficacy following intranasal administration with the LecA antigen. By applying a statistical design of experiments (DOE) and desirability function approach, we now describe the optimization of the dose of each vaccine formulation component (LecA, GLA, 3M-052, and liposome) as well as the excipient composition (acyl chain length and saturation; PEGylated lipid:phospholipid ratio; and presence of antioxidant, tonicity, or viscosity agents) to maximize desired immunogenicity characteristics while maintaining physicochemical stability. This DOE/desirability index approach led to the identification of a lead candidate composition that demonstrated immune response durability and protective efficacy in the mouse model, as well as an assessment of the impact of each active vaccine formulation component on protection. Thus, we demonstrate that both GLA and 3M-052 are required for statistically significant protective efficacy. We also show that immunogenicity and efficacy results differ in female vs male mice, and the differences appear to be at least partly associated with adjuvant formulation composition."},"34266981":{"title":"A yeast expressed RBD-based SARS-CoV-2 vaccine formulated with 3M-052-alum adjuvant promotes protective efficacy in non-human primates.","abstract":"Ongoing SARS-CoV-2 vaccine development is focused on identifying stable, cost-effective, and accessible candidates for global use, specifically in low and middle-income countries. Here, we report the efficacy of a rapidly scalable, novel yeast expressed SARS-CoV-2 specific receptor-binding domain (RBD) based vaccine in rhesus macaques. We formulated the RBD immunogen in alum, a licensed and an emerging alum adsorbed TLR-7/8 targeted, 3M-052-alum adjuvants. The RBD+3M-052-alum adjuvanted vaccine promoted better RBD binding and effector antibodies, higher CoV-2 neutralizing antibodies, improved Th1 biased CD4+T cell reactions, and increased CD8+ T cell responses when compared to the alum-alone adjuvanted vaccine. RBD+3M-052-alum induced a significant reduction of SARS-CoV-2 virus in respiratory tract upon challenge, accompanied by reduced lung inflammation when compared with unvaccinated controls. Anti-RBD antibody responses in vaccinated animals inversely correlated with viral load in nasal secretions and BAL. RBD+3M-052-alum blocked a post SARS-CoV-2 challenge increase in CD14+CD16++ intermediate blood monocytes, and Fractalkine, MCP-1, and TRAIL in the plasma. Decreased plasma analytes and intermediate monocyte frequencies correlated with reduced nasal and BAL viral loads. Lastly, RBD-specific plasma cells accumulated in the draining lymph nodes and not in the bone marrow, contrary to previous findings. Together, these data show that a yeast expressed, RBD-based vaccine+3M-052-alum provides robust immune responses and protection against SARS-CoV-2, making it a strong and scalable vaccine candidate."},"34305913":{"title":"The Effect of Immunosuppressive Adjuvant Kynurenine on Type 1 Diabetes Vaccine.","abstract":"Inducing antigen-specific tolerance is a promising treatment for preventing or reversing Type 1 diabetes (T1D). In contrast to a vaccine that induces immune responses against pathogens, a tolerogenic vaccine can suppress immunity against antigens causing diseases by administrating a mixture of self-antigens with an adjuvant that decreases the strength of antigen-specific response. Kynurenine (Kyn) is an endogenous substance that can inhibit the natural killer cell and T cell proliferation and promote the differentiation of naïve T cells into regulatory T cells (Tregs). In this study, we evaluated the efficacy of Kyn as a novel suppressive adjuvant. Kyn was co-immunized with GAD65 phage vaccine to induce Treg cells and tolerogenic responses for the prevention of T1D in NOD mouse model. Mice were subcutaneously immunized two times with 1011 Pfu (100μL,1012 Pfu/ml) GAD65 phage vaccine doses mixed with 200 μg of Kyn. Serum antibodies and cytokines were detected by ELISA and electrochemiluminescence, respectively. Flow cytometry assay was used to analyze DC and Treg. MTS was used for the analysis of spleen lymphocyte proliferation. RNA sequencing was used to investigate mRNA and miRNA expression profiles in spleen lymphocytes. Compared to GAD65 phage vaccine alone, co-immunization of Kyn and GAD65 phage vaccine resulted in the prevention of hyperglycemia in 60% of mice for at least one month. Further, Kyn enhances GAD65-specific Th2-mediated immune responses; regulates the Th1/Th2 imbalance and increases the secretion of Th2 cytokines and the number of CD4+CD25+Foxp3+T cells; suppresses DC maturation and GAD65-specific T lymphocyte proliferation. Moreover, we integrated Kyn related miRNA and mRNA expression profiles obtained from the spleen lymphocyte RNA-sequencing which was stimulated by Kyn in vitro. These data provide an important basis for understanding the mechanisms underlying Kyn as an immunosuppressive adjuvant which regulated the immune response. These findings suggest that Kyn can serve as an effective suppressive adjuvant candidate for Type 1 diabetes vaccines."},"34315922":{"title":"Monocyte-dependent co-stimulation of cytokine induction in human γδ T cells by TLR8 RNA ligands.","abstract":"Human Vγ9Vδ2 T cells recognize pyrophosphates produced by microbes and transformed cells and play a role in anti-infective immunity and tumor surveillance. Toll-like receptors (TLR) are pattern recognition receptors in innate immune cells which sense microbial structures including nucleic acids. Given that γδ T cells are in clinical development for application in cellular cancer immunotherapy and TLR ligands have potent adjuvant activity, we investigated the co-stimulatory role of selected TLR ligands in γδ T-cell activation. Here we have used recently described RNA ligands for TLR7 and TLR8 together with Vγ9Vδ2 T-cell specific pyrophosphate antigens to analyze the rapid cytokine induction in Vδ2 T cells as well as the accessory cell requirements. While TLR8- as well as TLR7/8-specific RNA did not induce IFN-γ in Vδ2 T cells on their own, they provided strong co-stimulation for Vδ2 T cells within peripheral blood mononuclear cells in the presence of additional T-cell receptor activation. In contrast, TLR7 ligands were ineffective. Purified γδ T cells did not directly respond to TLR8 co-stimulation but required the presence of monocytes. Further experiments revealed a critical role of IL-1β and IL-18, and to a slightly lesser extent of IL-12p70, in the co-stimulation of Vδ2 T cells by TLR8 and TLR7/8 RNA ligands. Results of intracellular cytokine expression were validated by ELISA analysis of cytokines in cell culture supernatants. The cell context-dependent adjuvant activity of TLR8 and TLR7/8 RNA ligands described here might be important for the future optimization of γδ T-cell based cancer immunotherapy."},"34358167":{"title":"Immune Responses to Pandemic H1N1 Influenza Virus Infection in Pigs Vaccinated with a Conserved Hemagglutinin HA1 Peptide Adjuvanted with CAF®01 or CDA/αGalCerMPEG.","abstract":"This study aimed to evaluate the immune response and protection correlates against influenza virus (IV) infection in pigs vaccinated with the novel NG34 HA1 vaccine candidate adjuvanted with either CAF®01 or CDA/αGalCerMPEG (αGCM). Two groups of six pigs each were vaccinated intramuscularly twice with either NG34 + CAF®01 or NG34 + CDA/αGCM. As controls, groups of animals (n = 6 or 4) either non-vaccinated or vaccinated with human seasonal trivalent influenza vaccine or NG34 + Freund's adjuvant were included in the study. All animal groups were challenged with the 2009 pandemic (pdm09) strain of H1N1 (total amount of 7 × 106 TCID50/mL) via intranasal and endotracheal routes 21 days after second vaccination. Reduced consolidated lung lesions were observed both on days three and seven post-challenge in the animals vaccinated with NG34 + CAF®01, whereas higher variability with relatively more severe lesions in pigs of the NG34 + CDA/αGCM group on day three post-infection. Among groups, animals vaccinated with NG34 + CDA/αGCM showed higher viral loads in the lung at seven days post infection whereas animals from NG34 + CAF®01 completely abolished virus from the lower respiratory tract. Similarly, higher IFNγ secretion and stronger IgG responses against the NG34 peptide in sera was observed in animals from the NG34 + CAF®01 group as compared to the NG34 + CDA/αGCM. NG34-vaccinated pigs with adjuvanted CAF®01 or CDA/αGCM combinations resulted in different immune responses as well as outcomes in pathology and viral shedding."},"34362603":{"title":"Novel TLR4 adjuvant elicits protection against homologous and heterologous Influenza A infection.","abstract":"Influenza A virus (IAV) is a leading cause of respiratory disease worldwide often resulting in hospitalization or death. In this study, TLR4 immunostimulatory molecules, Bacterial Enzymatic Combinatorial Chemistry (BECC) 438 and BECC470 were found to be superior IAV vaccine adjuvants when compared to the classic adjuvant alhydrogel (alum) and Phosphorylated Hexa-Acyl Disaccharide (PHAD), a synthetic TLR4 agonist. BECC molecules allow for antigen sparing of a recombinant HA (rHA) protein, elicit a more balanced IgG1/IgG2a response, and were protective in a prime only dosing schedule. Importantly, BECC molecules afford protection from a heterologous IAV strain demonstrating that a cross-protective influenza vaccine is possible when the antigen is effectively adjuvanted."},"34364600":{"title":"The activation effects of fucoidan from sea cucumber Stichopus chloronotus on RAW264.7 cells via TLR2/4-NF-κB pathway and its structure-activity relationship.","abstract":"Sea cucumber Stichopus chloronotus is a traditional tonic food with high nutritive value in Southern China. Fucoidan from sea cucumber Stichopus chloronotus (Fuc-Sc) is its main bio-active polysaccharide, the immune-activation effects of which have been fully investigated on RAW264.7 cells in the present study. The results indicated that Fuc-Sc could stimulate the RAW264.7 cells by promoting the production of NO, TNF-α, IL-6 and IL-10. Western blot and RT-PCR analysis revealed that TLR4 and TLR2 were involved in the recognition of Fuc-Sc and activation of downstream NF-κB signal pathway. Moreover, the chemical structure parameter molecular weight showed obvious impact on the stimulation effects of Fuc-Sc on NO production. Degraded product of Fuc-Sc with weight average molecular weight of 113.1 × 104 Da exhibited higher activities than that of intact Fuc-Sc, suggesting the existent of optimum chain length to exert its highest activities. Taken together, Fuc-Sc exerted its immunostimulating activity via TLR2/4 activation of NF-κB pathway and showed potentials to be a good immunoadjuvant."},"34399628":{"title":"Combination Adjuvants Enhance Recombinant Protein Vaccine Protection against Fungal Infection.","abstract":"The development of effective vaccines against fungal infections requires the induction of protective, pathogen-specific cell-mediated immune responses. Here, we asked whether combination adjuvants based on delta inulin (Advax) formulated with Toll-like receptor (TLR) agonists could improve vaccine protection mediated by a fungal recombinant protein, Bl-Eng2 (i.e., Blastomyces endoglucanase 2), which itself harbors an immunodominant antigen and dectin-2 agonist/adjuvant. We found that Bl-Eng2 formulated with Advax3 containing TLR9 agonist or Advax8 containing TLR4 agonist provided the best protection against pulmonary infection with Blastomyces dermatitidis, being more effective than complete Freund's adjuvant or Adjuplex. Advax3 was most efficient in inducing gamma interferon (IFN-γ)- and interleukin-17 (IL-17)-producing antigen-specific T cells that migrated to the lung upon Blastomyces dermatitidis infection. Mechanistic studies revealed Bl-Eng2/Advax3 protection was tempered by neutralization of IL-17 and particularly IFN-γ. Likewise, greater numbers of lung-resident T cells producing IFN-γ, IL-17, or both IFN-γ and IL-17 correlated with fewer fungi recovered from lung. Protection was maintained after depletion of CD4+ T cells, partially reduced by depletion of CD8+ T cells, and completely eliminated after depletion of both CD4+ and CD8+ T cells. We conclude that Bl-Eng2 formulated with Advax3 is promising for eliciting vaccine-induced antifungal immunity, through a previously uncharacterized mechanism involving CD8+ and also CD4+ T cells producing IFN-γ and/or IL-17. Although no licensed vaccine exists as yet against any fungal disease, these findings indicate the importance of adjuvant selection for the development of effective fungal vaccines. IMPORTANCE Fungal disease remains a challenging clinical and public health problem. Despite medical advances, invasive fungal infections have skyrocketed over the last decade and pose a mounting health threat in immunocompetent and -deficient hosts, with worldwide mortality rates ranking 7th, even ahead of tuberculosis. The development of safe, effective vaccines remains a major hurdle for fungi. Critical barriers to progress include the lack of defined fungal antigens and suitable adjuvants. Our research is significant in identifying adjuvant combinations that elicit optimal vaccine-induced protection when formulated with a recombinant protective antigen and uncovering the mechanistic bases of the underlaying vaccine protection, which will foster the strategic development of antifungal vaccines."},"34404812":{"title":"Interplay of diverse adjuvants and nanoparticle presentation of native-like HIV-1 envelope trimers.","abstract":"The immunogenicity of HIV-1 envelope (Env) trimers is generally poor. We used the clinically relevant ConM SOSIP trimer to compare the ability of different adjuvants (squalene emulsion, ISCOMATRIX, GLA-LSQ, and MPLA liposomes) to support neutralizing antibody (NAb) responses in rabbits. The trimers were administered as free proteins or on nanoparticles. The rank order for the adjuvants was ISCOMATRIX > SE > GLA-LSQ ~ MPLA liposomes > no adjuvant. Stronger NAb responses were elicited when the ConM SOSIP trimers were presented on ferritin nanoparticles. We also found that the GLA-LSQ adjuvant induced an unexpectedly strong antibody response to the ferritin core of the nanoparticles. This \"off-target\" effect may have compromised its ability to induce the more desired antitrimer antibodies. In summary, both adjuvants and nanoparticle display can improve the magnitude of the antibody response to SOSIP trimers but the best combination of trimer presentation and adjuvant can only be identified experimentally."},"34411614":{"title":"Chitosan modified squalene nanostructured lipid carriers as a promising adjuvant for freeze-dried ovalbumin vaccine.","abstract":"As immune adjuvants assisting vaccines, nanoparticle delivery systems have been widely exploited. Squalene, the major ingredient of approved adjuvant MF59, has great potential in activating immune responses. In the current study, model antigen ovalbumin (OVA) was encapsulated into squalene-based nanostructured lipid carriers (NLCs), and the chitosan, a cationic polysaccharide, was used for modifying nanoparticles to develop a functionalized and cationic nanoparticle delivery system (OVA-csNLCs). Firstly, the optimal formulation of csNLCs was successfully screened out, and had hydrodynamic diameter of 235.80 ± 5.99 nm and zeta potential of 34.90 ± 6.95 mV. Then, the generated OVA-csNLCs had no significant difference in hydrodynamic diameter and exhibited lower zeta potential of 19.03 ± 0.31 mV and high encapsulation efficiency of 83.4%. Sucrose (10%, w/w) was selected as optimal lyoprotectant, exhibiting good stability of OVA-csNLCs in the form of freeze-dried powder. More importantly, the OVA-csNLCs effectively promoted OVA antigen uptake by macrophage, significantly enhanced the level of OVA-specific IgG, and induced a Th2-based immune response in vivo. Furthermore, mice immunization experiment demonstrated that OVA-csNLCs had well biocompatibility and facilitated spleen lymphocytes proliferation. Above findings indicate that chitosan modified squalene nanostructured lipid carriers show promise as antigen delivery system and an open adjuvant platform."},"34419305":{"title":"Vaccine preventable diseases surveillance in Nepal: How much does it cost?","abstract":"Assessing the cost of vaccine preventable diseases (VPD) surveillance is becoming more important in the context of the Global Polio Eradication Initiative (GPEI) funding transition, since GPEI support to polio surveillance helped the incremental building of VPD surveillance systems in many countries, including low income countries such as Nepal. However, there is limited knowledge on the cost of conducting VPD surveillance, especially the national cost for surveillance of multiple vaccine-preventable diseases. The current study sought to calculate the economic and financial costs of Nepal's comprehensive VPD surveillance systems from July 2016 to July 2017. At thecentral level, all surveillance units were included in the sample. At sub-national level, a purposive sampling strategy was used to select a representative sample from locations involved in conducting surveillance. The sub-national sample costs were extrapolated to the nationwide VPD surveillance system. Nepal's total annual economic cost of VPD surveillance was USD 4.81 million or USD 0.18 per capita, while the total financial cost was USD 4.38 million or USD 0.16 per capita. Government expenditures accounted for 56% of the total economic cost, and World Health Organization accounting for 44%. The biggest cost driver was personnel accounting for 51% of the total economic cost. WHO supported trained surveillance personnel through donor funding, mainly from Global Polio Eradication Initiative. As a polio transition priority country, Nepal will need to make strategic choices to fully self-finance or seek full donor support or a mixed-financing model as polio program funding diminishes."},"34420786":{"title":"Immunisation of ferrets and mice with recombinant SARS-CoV-2 spike protein formulated with Advax-SM adjuvant protects against COVID-19 infection.","abstract":"The development of a safe and effective vaccine is a key requirement to overcoming the COVID-19 pandemic. Recombinant proteins represent the most reliable and safe vaccine approach but generally require a suitable adjuvant for robust and durable immunity. We used the SARS-CoV-2 genomic sequence and in silico structural modelling to design a recombinant spike protein vaccine (Covax-19™). A synthetic gene encoding the spike extracellular domain (ECD) was inserted into a baculovirus backbone to express the protein in insect cell cultures. The spike ECD was formulated with Advax-SM adjuvant and first tested for immunogenicity in C57BL/6 and BALB/c mice. Covax-19 vaccine induced high spike protein binding antibody levels that neutralised the original lineage B.1.319 virus from which the vaccine spike protein was derived, as well as the variant B.1.1.7 lineage virus. Covax-19 vaccine also induced a high frequency of spike-specific CD4 + and CD8 + memory T-cells with a dominant Th1 phenotype associated with the ability to kill spike-labelled target cells in vivo. Ferrets immunised with Covax-19 vaccine intramuscularly twice 2 weeks apart made spike receptor binding domain (RBD) IgG and were protected against an intranasal challenge with SARS-CoV-2 virus given two weeks after the last immunisation. Notably, ferrets that received the two higher doses of Covax-19 vaccine had no detectable virus in their lungs or in nasal washes at day 3 post-challenge, suggesting that in addition to lung protection, Covax-19 vaccine may have the potential to reduce virus transmission. This data supports advancement of Covax-19 vaccine into human clinical trials."},"34429319":{"title":"Vaccination with Polyclonal Antibody Stimulator (PAS) Prevents Pancreatic Carcinogenesis in the KRAS Mouse Model.","abstract":"The incidence of pancreatic cancer is increasing significantly and will soon become the second leading cause of cancer-related deaths in the United States. We have previously shown that the gastrointestinal peptide gastrin, which is only expressed in the fetal pancreas and not in the adult pancreas, is activated during pancreatic carcinogenesis where it stimulates growth in an autocrine fashion. In this investigation, we used transgenic LSL-KrasG12D/+; P48-Cre mice that develop precancerous pancreatic intraepithelial neoplasia (PanIN) lesions and pancreatic cancer over time. Starting at 3 months of age, mice were either left untreated (control) or were treated with a gastrin-targeted vaccine, polyclonal antibody stimulator (PAS 250 μg) followed by a monthly booster until the mice reached 8 months of age when pancreata were excised, and analyzed by histology for PanIN grade in a blinded fashion. High-grade PanIN-3 lesions were significantly less in PAS-treated mice (P = 0.0077), and cancers developed in 33% of the control mice but only in 10% of the PAS-treated mice. Compared with the control mice, fibrosis was reduced by >50%, arginase positive M2 macrophages were reduced by 74%, and CD8+ T cells were increased by 73% in the pancreas extracellular matrix in PAS-treated mice. PREVENTION RELEVANCE: PAS vaccination significantly decreased high-grade PanIN lesions and altered the pancreas microenvironment, rendering it less carcinogenic."},"34456075":{"title":"A truncated glycoprotein G vaccine formulated with Advax-CpG adjuvant provides protection of mice against genital herpes simplex virus 2 infection.","abstract":"Herpes simplex virus type 2 (HSV-2) is a common sexually transmitted disease that affects approximately 500 million individuals globally. There is currently no approved vaccine to prevent HSV-2 infection. EXCT4 is a truncated form of the mature glycoprotein G-2 (mgG-2) that unlike full mature form is secreted by expressing cells enabling it to be rapidly scaled up for production. The current study examined whether EXCT4 immunity in mice could be further enhanced through use of adjuvants. EXCT4 formulated with Advax-CpG adjuvant induced a strong Th1-type immune response characterized by interferon gamma (IFN-γ) and protected animals against a lethal genital challenge with HSV-2. This response was associated with reduced viral load in vaginal washes, spinal cord, and dorsal root ganglia. Together the results provide proof of concept that EXCT4 formulated with Advax-CpG adjuvant is a promising HSV-2 vaccine candidate warranting further investigation."},"344799":{"title":"Enhancement of carrier-specific helper T cell function by the synthetic adjuvant, N-acetyl muramyl-L-alanyl-D-isoglutamine (MDP).","abstract":"The adjuvant effect of a synthetic peptidoglycan, muramyl dipeptide (N-acetyl muramyl-L-alanyl-D-isoglutamine, MDP), was studied by using the anti-Tnp PFC and hemagglutinin responses of BALB/c mice to hapten-carrier conjugates. Administration of Tnp-OVA and MDP in saline to mice, followed 2 weeks later by a boost of Tnp-OVA in saline, led to significantly higher IgM and IgG anti-Tnp PFC and total anti-Tnp-hemagglutinin responses than those obtained in mice not treated with MDP in the initial immunization. A similar adjuvant effect by MDP on anti-hapten PFC responses was seen if mice were primed with KLH together with MDP and challenged with Tnp-KLH 2 weeks later. This apparent effect on carrier priming for helper function was confirmed and quantitated by double adoptive transfer experiments with graded numbers of spleen cells from KLH +/- MDP-primed mice and a fixed number of hapten-primed spleen cells from syngeneic Tnp-OVA immunized animals. These data suggest that at least one mode of action of the synthetic adjuvant MDP is via the enhanced stimulation of the helper T cell function."},"34483911":{"title":"Effect of Two Unique Nanoparticle Formulations on the Efficacy of a Broadly Protective Vaccine Against Pseudomonas Aeruginosa.","abstract":"Pseudomonas aeruginosa is an opportunistic pathogen responsible for a wide range of infections in humans. In addition to its innate antibiotic resistance, P. aeruginosa is very effective in acquiring resistance resulting in the emergence of multi-drug resistance strains and a licensed vaccine is not yet available. We have previously demonstrated the protective efficacy of a novel antigen PaF (Pa Fusion), a fusion of the type III secretion system (T3SS) needle tip protein, PcrV, and the first of two translocator proteins, PopB. PaF was modified to provide a self-adjuvanting activity by fusing the A1 subunit of the heat-labile enterotoxin from Enterotoxigenic E. coli to its N-terminus to give L-PaF. In addition to providing protection against 04 and 06 serotypes of P. aeruginosa, L-PaF elicited opsonophagocytic killing and stimulated IL-17A secretion, which have been predicted to be required for a successful vaccine. While monomeric recombinant subunit vaccines can be protective in mice, this protection often does not transfer to humans where multimeric formulations perform better. Here, we use two unique formulations, an oil-in-water (o/w) emulsion and a chitosan particle, as well as the addition of a unique TLR4 agonist, BECC438 (a detoxified lipid A analogue designated Bacterial Enzymatic Combinatorial Chemistry 438), as an initial step in optimizing L-PaF for use in humans. The o/w emulsion together with BECC438 provided the best protective efficacy, which correlated with high levels of opsonophagocytic killing and IL-17A secretion, thereby reducing the lung burden among all the vaccinated groups tested."},"34485117":{"title":"Curcumin as an Adjuvant to Cancer Immunotherapy.","abstract":"The components of the immune system play a very sincere and crucial role in combating tumors. However, despite their firm efforts of elimination, tumor cells cleverly escape the surveillance process by adopting several immune evasion mechanisms. The conversion of immunogenicity of tumor microenvironment into tolerogenic is considered as a prime reason for tumor immune escape. Therapeutically, different immunotherapies have been adopted to block such immune escaping routes along with better clinical outcomes. Still, the therapies are haunted by several drawbacks. Over time, curcumin has been considered as a potential anti-cancer molecule. Its potentialities have been recorded against the standard hallmarks of cancer such as continuous proliferation, escaping apoptosis, continuous angiogenesis, insensitivity to growth inhibitors, tissue invasion, and metastasis. Hence, the diversity of curcumin functioning has already been established and exploration of its application with immunotherapies might open up a new avenue for scientists and clinicians. In this review, we briefly discuss the tumor's way of immune escaping, followed by various modern immunotherapies that have been used to encounter the escaping paths and their minute flaws. Finally, the conclusion has been drawn with the application of curcumin as a potential immune-adjuvant, which fearlessly could be used with immunotherapies for best outcomes."},"34491910":{"title":"IL-21 enhances influenza vaccine responses in aged macaques with suppressed SIV infection.","abstract":"Natural aging and HIV infection are associated with chronic low-grade systemic inflammation, immune senescence, and impaired antibody responses to vaccines such as the influenza (flu) vaccine. We investigated the role of IL-21, a CD4+ T follicular helper cell (Tfh) regulator, on flu vaccine antibody response in nonhuman primates (NHPs) in the context of age and controlled SIV mac239 infection. Three doses of the flu vaccine with or without IL-21-IgFc were administered at 3-month intervals in aged SIV+ NHPs following virus suppression with antiretroviral therapy. IL-21-treated animals demonstrated higher day 14-postboost antibody responses, which associated with expanded CD4+ T central memory cells and peripheral Tfh-expressing (pTfh-expressing) T cell immunoreceptor with Ig and ITIM domains (TIGIT), expanded activated memory B cells, and contracted CD11b+ monocytes. Draining lymph node (LN) tissue from IL-21-treated animals revealed direct association between LN follicle Tfh density and frequency of circulating TIGIT+ pTfh cells. We conclude that IL-21 enhances flu vaccine-induced antibody responses in SIV+ aged rhesus macaques (RMs), acting as an adjuvant modulating LN germinal center activity. A strategy to supplement IL-21 in aging could be a valuable addition in the toolbox for improving vaccine responses in an aging HIV+ population."},"34516780":{"title":"Vaccine-driven lung TRM cells provide immunity against Klebsiella via fibroblast IL-17R signaling.","abstract":"Tissue-resident memory (TRM) cells are thought to play a role in lung mucosal immunity to pathogens, but strategies to elicit TRM by mucosal vaccines have not yet been fully realized. Here, we formulated a vaccine composed of outer membrane protein (Omp) X from Klebsiella pneumoniae and LTA1 adjuvant that was administered by the intrapulmonary route. This vaccine elicited both TH1 and TH17 cells that shared transcriptional features with cells elicited by heat-killed K. pneumoniae. Antibody responses were required to prevent bacterial dissemination but dispensable for lung-specific immunity. In contrast, lung immunity required CD4+ T cells, STAT3 expression, and IL-17R signaling in fibroblasts. Lung-specific CD4+ T cells from OmpX+LTA1–immunized mice were observed homing to the lung and could mediate protection against infection in an adoptive transfer model. Vaccine-elicited TH17 cells showed reduced plasticity and were resistant to the immunosuppressant FK506 compared with TH1 cells, and TH17 cells conferred protection under conditions of transplant immunosuppression. These data demonstrate a promising vaccine strategy that elicits lung TRM cells and promotes serotype-independent immunity to K. pneumoniae."},"34551259":{"title":"PhotothermalPhage: A Virus-Based Photothermal Therapeutic Agent.","abstract":"Virus-like particles (VLPs) are multifunctional nanocarriers that mimic the architecture of viruses. They can serve as a safe platform for specific functionalization and immunization, which provides benefits in a wide range of biomedical applications. In this work, a new generation immunophotothermal agent is developed that adjuvants photothermal ablation using a chemically modified VLP called bacteriophage Qβ. The design is based on the conjugation of near-infrared absorbing croconium dyes to lysine residues located on the surface of Qβ, which turns it to a powerful NIR-absorber called PhotothermalPhage. This system can generate more heat upon 808 nm NIR laser radiation than free dye and possesses a photothermal efficiency comparable to gold nanostructures, yet it is biodegradable and acts as an immunoadjuvant combined with the heat it produces. The synergistic combination of thermal ablation with the mild immunogenicity of the VLP leads to effective suppression of primary tumors, reduced lung metastasis, and increased survival time."},"34552594":{"title":"IFNβ Is a Potent Adjuvant for Cancer Vaccination Strategies.","abstract":"Cancer vaccination drives the generation of anti-tumor T cell immunity and can be enhanced by the inclusion of effective immune adjuvants such as type I interferons (IFNs). Whilst type I IFNs have been shown to promote cross-priming of T cells, the role of individual subtypes remains unclear. Here we systematically compared the capacity of distinct type I IFN subtypes to enhance T cell responses to a whole-cell vaccination strategy in a pre-clinical murine model. We show that vaccination in combination with IFNβ induces significantly greater expansion of tumor-specific CD8+ T cells than the other type I IFN subtypes tested. Optimal expansion was dependent on the presence of XCR1+ dendritic cells, CD4+ T cells, and CD40/CD40L signaling. Therapeutically, vaccination with IFNβ delayed tumor progression when compared to vaccination without IFN. When vaccinated in combination with anti-PD-L1 checkpoint blockade therapy (CPB), the inclusion of IFNβ associated with more mice experiencing complete regression and a trend in increased overall survival. This work demonstrates the potent adjuvant activity of IFNβ, highlighting its potential to enhance cancer vaccination strategies alone and in combination with CPB."},"34566991":{"title":"Nasal Immunization With Small Molecule Mast Cell Activators Enhance Immunity to Co-Administered Subunit Immunogens.","abstract":"Mast cell activators are a novel class of mucosal vaccine adjuvants. The polymeric compound, Compound 48/80 (C48/80), and cationic peptide, Mastoparan 7 (M7) are mast cell activators that provide adjuvant activity when administered by the nasal route. However, small molecule mast cell activators may be a more cost-efficient adjuvant alternative that is easily synthesized with high purity compared to M7 or C48/80. To identify novel mast cell activating compounds that could be evaluated for mucosal vaccine adjuvant activity, we employed high-throughput screening to assess over 55,000 small molecules for mast cell degranulation activity. Fifteen mast cell activating compounds were down-selected to five compounds based on in vitro immune activation activities including cytokine production and cellular cytotoxicity, synthesis feasibility, and selection for functional diversity. These small molecule mast cell activators were evaluated for in vivo adjuvant activity and induction of protective immunity against West Nile Virus infection in BALB/c mice when combined with West Nile Virus envelope domain III (EDIII) protein in a nasal vaccine. We found that three of the five mast cell activators, ST101036, ST048871, and R529877, evoked high levels of EDIII-specific antibody and conferred comparable levels of protection against WNV challenge. The level of protection provided by these small molecule mast cell activators was comparable to the protection evoked by M7 (67%) but markedly higher than the levels seen with mice immunized with EDIII alone (no adjuvant 33%). Thus, novel small molecule mast cell activators identified by high throughput screening are as efficacious as previously described mast cell activators when used as nasal vaccine adjuvants and represent next-generation mast cell activators for evaluation in mucosal vaccine studies."},"34599933":{"title":"Serologic Response to Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) Vaccination in Patients With Immune-Mediated Inflammatory Diseases: A Systematic Review and Meta-analysis.","abstract":"Patients with immune-mediated inflammatory diseases (IMIDs) have an increased risk of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), primarily attributed to the use of immunosuppressive drugs such as glucocorticoids, which may attenuate the response to vaccines. This meta-analysis assessed the serologic response to COVID-19 vaccination in patients with IMIDs. Electronic databases were searched on August 1, 2021, for observational studies. Data extracted included reference population, medications, vaccination, and proportion of patients achieving a serologic response. The analysis included 25 observational studies (5360 patients). Most of the studies used messenger RNA (mRNA) vaccines (BNT162b2, mRNA-1273), with a small number of studies including other types of vaccines (AZD1222, CoronaVac, BBV152, Ad26.COV2.S). Serologic response after 1 dose (6 studies) and 2 doses (17 studies) of mRNA vaccine were 73.2% (95% confidence interval [CI], 65.7%-79.5%) and 83.4% (95% CI, 76.8%-88.4%), respectively. On meta-regression, anti-CD20 therapy was associated with lower response rates (P < .001) and anti-tumor necrosis factor therapy also showed a trend toward lower response rates (P = .058). Patients with IMIDs were less likely to achieve a serologic response compared with controls after 2 doses of mRNA vaccine (6 studies; odds ratio, 0.086; 95% CI, 0.036-0.206; P < .001). There were not enough studies to assess response to the adenoviral or inactivated vaccines. Our meta-analysis demonstrated that patients with IMIDs have a reduced response to mRNA COVID-19 vaccines. These results suggest that IMID patients receiving mRNA vaccines should complete the vaccine series without delay and support the strategy of providing a third dose of the vaccine."},"34602608":{"title":"Oncolytic Newcastle disease virus expressing the co-stimulator OX40L as immunopotentiator for colorectal cancer therapy.","abstract":"NDV as an attractive candidate for oncolytic immunotherapy selectively lyses tumor cells but shows limited anti-tumor immunity. Immune co-stimulator OX40 ligand (OX40L) boosts anti-tumor immunity response by delivering a potent costimulatory signal to CD4+ and CD8+ T cells. To improve the anti-tumor immunity of NDV, the recombinant NDV expressing the murine OX40L (rNDV-mOX40L) was engineered. The viral growth kinetics was examined in CT26 cell lines. The ability of rNDV-mOX40L to express mOX40L was detected in the infected tumor cells and tumor tissues. The anti-tumor activity of rNDV-mOX40L was studied in the CT26 animal model. Tumor-specific CD4+, CD8+ and OX40+ T cells were examined by immunohistochemistry staining. The virus growth curve showed that the insertion of the mOX40L gene did not affect the growth kinetics of NDV. rNDV-mOX40L expresses mOX40L and effectively inhibits the growth of CT26 colorectal cancer in vivo. The tumor inhibition rate of the rNDV-mOX40L-treated group was increased by 15.8% compared to that of  NDV-treated group in the CT26 model. Furthermore, immunohistochemistry staining of tumor tissues removed from the CT26 model revealed that intense infiltration of tumor-specific CD4+, CD8+ T cells, especially OX40+ T cells were found in the rNDV-mOX40L-treated group. FACS showed that rNDV-mOX40L significantly enhanced the number of CD4+ and CD8+ T cells in spleen. Moreover, compared to the NDV-treated group, the level of mouse IFN-γ protein in the tumor site increased significantly in the rNDV-mOX40L-treated group. Taken together, rNDV-mOX40L exhibited superior anti-tumor immunity by stimulating tumor-specific T cells and may be a promising agent for cancer immunotherapy."},"34603318":{"title":"IL-7 in SARS-CoV-2 Infection and as a Potential Vaccine Adjuvant.","abstract":"IL-7/IL-7R signaling is critical for development, maturation, maintenance and survival of many lymphocytes in the thymus and periphery. IL-7 has been used as immunotherapy in pre-clinical and clinical studies to treat cancer, HIV infection and sepsis. Here, we discuss the critical function of IL-7 in diagnosis, prognosis and treatment of COVID-19 patients. We also summarize a promising role of IL-7 as a vaccine adjuvant. It could potentially enhance the immune responses to vaccines especially against SARS-CoV-2 or other new vaccines."},"34634664":{"title":"Generation of potent cellular and humoral immunity against SARS-CoV-2 antigens via conjugation to a polymeric glyco-adjuvant.","abstract":"The SARS-CoV-2 virus has caused an unprecedented global crisis, and curtailing its spread requires an effective vaccine which elicits a diverse and robust immune response. We have previously shown that vaccines made of a polymeric glyco-adjuvant conjugated to an antigen were effective in triggering such a response in other disease models and hypothesized that the technology could be adapted to create an effective vaccine against SARS-CoV-2. The core of the vaccine platform is the copolymer p(Man-TLR7), composed of monomers with pendant mannose or a toll-like receptor 7 (TLR7) agonist. Thus, p(Man-TLR7) is designed to target relevant antigen-presenting cells (APCs) via mannose-binding receptors and then activate TLR7 upon endocytosis. The p(Man-TLR7) construct is amenable to conjugation to protein antigens such as the Spike protein of SARS-CoV-2, yielding Spike-p(Man-TLR7). Here, we demonstrate Spike-p(Man-TLR7) vaccination elicits robust antigen-specific cellular and humoral responses in mice. In adult and elderly wild-type mice, vaccination with Spike-p(Man-TLR7) generates high and long-lasting titers of anti-Spike IgGs, with neutralizing titers exceeding levels in convalescent human serum. Interestingly, adsorbing Spike-p(Man-TLR7) to the depot-forming adjuvant alum amplified the broadly neutralizing humoral responses to levels matching those in mice vaccinated with formulations based off of clinically-approved adjuvants. Additionally, we observed an increase in germinal center B cells, antigen-specific antibody secreting cells, activated T follicular helper cells, and polyfunctional Th1-cytokine producing CD4+ and CD8+ T cells. We conclude that Spike-p(Man-TLR7) is an attractive, next-generation subunit vaccine candidate, capable of inducing durable and robust antibody and T cell responses."},"34750396":{"title":"Development of molecular clamp stabilized hemagglutinin vaccines for Influenza A viruses.","abstract":"Influenza viruses cause a significant number of infections and deaths annually. In addition to seasonal infections, the risk of an influenza virus pandemic emerging is extremely high owing to the large reservoir of diverse influenza viruses found in animals and the co-circulation of many influenza subtypes which can reassort into novel strains. Development of a universal influenza vaccine has proven extremely challenging. In the absence of such a vaccine, rapid response technologies provide the best potential to counter a novel influenza outbreak. Here, we demonstrate that a modular trimerization domain known as the molecular clamp allows the efficient production and purification of conformationally stabilised prefusion hemagglutinin (HA) from a diverse range of influenza A subtypes. These clamp-stabilised HA proteins provided robust protection from homologous virus challenge in mouse and ferret models and some cross protection against heterologous virus challenge. This work provides a proof-of-concept for clamp-stabilised HA vaccines as a tool for rapid response vaccine development against future influenza A virus pandemics."},"34766005":{"title":"Fast and long-lasting immune response to S-trimer COVID-19 vaccine adjuvanted by PIKA.","abstract":"In the face of the emerging variants of SARS-CoV-2, there is an urgent need to develop a vaccine that can induce fast, effective, long-lasting and broad protective immunity against SARS-CoV-2. Here, we developed a trimeric SARS-CoV-2 S protein vaccine candidate adjuvanted by PIKA, which can induce robust cellular and humoral immune responses. The results showed a high level of neutralizing antibodies induced by the vaccine was maintained for at least 400 days. In the study of non-human primates, PIKA adjuvanted S-trimer induced high SARS-CoV-2 neutralization titers and protected from virus replication in the lung following SARS-CoV-2 challenge. In addition, the long-term neutralizing antibody response induced by S-trimer vaccine adjuvanted by PIKA could neutralize multiple SARS-CoV-2 variants and there is no obvious different among the SARS- CoV-2 variants of interest or concern, including B.1.351, B.1.1.7, P.1, B.1.617.1 and B.1.617.2 variants. These data support the utility of S-trimer protein adjuvanted by PIKA as a potential vaccine candidate against SARS-CoV-2 infection. The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1186/s43556-021-00054-z."},"34766215":{"title":"AddaVax Formulated with PolyI:C as a Potential Adjuvant of MDCK-based Influenza Vaccine Enhances Local, Cellular, and Antibody Protective Immune Response in Mice.","abstract":"Poor immune responses to inactivated influenza vaccine can be improved by effective and safe adjuvants to increase antibody titers and cellular protective response. In our study, AddaVax and PolyI:C combined adjuvant (AP adjuvant) were used for influenza vaccine development. After immunizing BALB/c mice and Wistar rats intramuscularly, Split inactivated H3N2 vaccine adjuvanted with AP elicited higher serum hemagglutination-inhibition antibodies and IgG titers. We demonstrated that AP induced a transient innate immune cytokines production at the injection site, induced H3N2 uptake by DCs, increased recruitment of monocytes and DCs in LNs, and promoted H3N2 vaccine migration; AP facilitated vaccines to induce a vigorous adaptive immune response. Besides, AP showed good safety as shown by lymph nodes (LNs) size, spleens index of BALB/c mice, and weight changes and C-reaction protein level of BALB/c mice and Wistar rats after repeated administration of high-dose vaccine with or without adjuvant. These findings indicate that AP is a potential novel adjuvant and can be used as a safe and effective adjuvant for MDCK-based influenza inactivated vaccine to induce cellular and antibody protective response."},"34774195":{"title":"Late thrombectomy for ischaemic stroke.","abstract":""},"34786473":{"title":"Mycobacterium tuberculosis Rv3628 isan effective adjuvant via activationof dendritic cells for cancer immunotherapy.","abstract":"Tumor antigens (Ags) are weakly immunogenic and elicit inadequate immune responses, thus induction of antigen-specific immune activation via the maturation of dendritic cells (DCs) is a strategy used for cancer immunotherapy. In this study, we examined the effect of Rv3628 from Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) on activation of DCs and anti-tumor immunity in vivo. Intravenous injection of mice with Rv3628 promoted DC activation of spleen and lymph nodes. More importantly, Rv3628 also induced activation of DCs and enhanced Ag presentation in tumor-bearing mice. In mice bearing ovalbumin (OVA)-expressing tumors, combination treatment with Rv3628 and OVA peptide promoted OVA-specific T cell activation and accumulation of interferon (IFN)-γ and tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α-producing OT-I and OT-II cells in tumor-draining lymph nodes. Moreover, three different tumor Ags in three different tumor models showed enhanced anti-tumor activity with Rv3628 as adjuvant, including inhibition of growth of OVA-expressing B16 melanoma, CT26 carcinoma, and B16 melanoma tumors, and a synergistic effect with anti-programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1) antibody treatment. Additionally, potential application against human tumors was indicated by similar activation of human peripheral blood DCs by Rv3628. Taken together, these data demonstrate that Rv3628 could be an effective adjuvant in tumor immunotherapy via enhanced capacity of DC activation and Ag presentation."},"34795290":{"title":"Development of COVID-19 vaccine using a dual Toll-like receptor ligand liposome adjuvant.","abstract":"We developed a SARS-CoV-2 spike subunit vaccine formulation containing dual TLR ligand liposome adjuvant. The vaccine-induced robust systemic neutralizing antibodies and completely protected mice from a lethal challenge. Two immunizations protected against lung injury and cleared the virus from lungs upon challenge. The adjuvanted vaccine also elicited systemic and local anti-Spike IgA which can be an important feature for a COVID-19 vaccine."},"34802791":{"title":"Immunogenicity of full-length P. vivax rPvs48/45 protein formulations in BALB/c mice.","abstract":"Pvs48/45 is a Plasmodium vivax gametocyte surface protein involved in the parasite fertilization process. Previous studies showed that Pvs48/45 proteins expressed in Escherichia coli (E. coli) and Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells were highly immunoreactive with sera from malaria-endemic areas and highly immunogenic in animal models. Here the immunogenicity in mice of three different vaccine formulations was compared. Recombinant (r) Pvs48/45 proteins were expressed in E. coli and CHO, purified, formulated in Alhydrogel, GLA-SE and Montanide ISA-51 adjuvants and used to immunize BALB/c mice. Animals were immunized on days 0, 20 and 40, and serum samples were collected for serological analyses of specific antibody responses using ELISA and immunofluorescence (IFAT). Additionally, ex-vivo transmission-reducing activity (TRA) of sera on P. vivax gametocyte-infected human blood fed to Anopheles albimanus in direct membrane feeding assays (DMFA) was evaluated. Most immunized animals seroconverted after the first immunization, and some developed antibody peaks of 106 with all adjuvants. However, the three adjuvant formulations induced different antibody responses and TRA efficacy. While GLA-SE formulations of both proteins induced similar antibody profiles, Montanide ISA-51 formulations resulted in higher and longer-lasting antibody titers with CHO-rPvs48/45 than with the E. coli formulation. Although the CHO protein formulated in Alhydrogel generated a high initial antibody peak, antibody responses to both proteins rapidly waned. Likewise, anti-Pvs48/45 antibodies displayed differential recognition of the parasite proteins in IFAT and ex vivo blockade of parasite transmission to mosquitoes. The CHO-rPvs48/45 formulated in Montanide ISA-51 induced the most effective ex vivo parasite blockage. Three out of six vaccine formulations elicited antibodies with ex vivo TRA. The CHO-rPvs48/45 Montanide ISA-51 formulation induced the most stable antibody response, recognizing the native protein and the most robust ex vivo TRA. These results encourage further testing of the vaccine potential of this protein."},"34826383":{"title":"Effectiveness of an inactivated virus-based SARS-CoV-2 vaccine, BBV152, in India: a test-negative, case-control study.","abstract":"BBV152 is a whole-virion inactivated SARS-CoV-2 vaccine that has been deployed in India. The results of the phase 3 trial have shown clinical efficacy of BBV152. We aimed to evaluate the effectiveness of BBV152 against symptomatic RT-PCR-confirmed SARS-CoV-2 infection. We conducted a test-negative, case-control study among employees of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (a tertiary care hospital in New Delhi, India), who had symptoms suggestive of COVID-19 and had an RT-PCR test for SARS-CoV-2 during the peak of the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic in India between April 15 and May 15, 2021. Cases (test-positives) and controls (test-negatives) were matched (1:1) on the basis of age and gender. The odds of vaccination with BBV152 were compared between cases and controls and adjusted for level of occupational exposure (to COVID-19), previous SARS-CoV-2 infection, and calendar time, using conditional logistic regression. The primary outcome was effectiveness of two doses of BBV152 (with the second dose received at least 14 days before testing) in reducing the odds of symptomatic RT-PCR-confirmed SARS-CoV-2 infection, expressed as (1 - odds ratio) × 100%. Between April 15 and May 15, 2021, 3732 individuals had an RT-PCR test. Of these, 2714 symptomatic employees had data on vaccination status, and 1068 matched case-control pairs were available for analysis. The adjusted effectiveness of BBV152 against symptomatic COVID-19 after two doses administered at least 14 days before testing was 50% (95% CI 33-62; p<0·0001). The adjusted effectiveness of two doses administered at least 28 days before testing was 46% (95% CI 22-62) and administered at least 42 days before testing was 57% (21-76). After excluding participants with previous SARS-CoV-2 infections, the adjusted effectiveness of two doses administered at least 14 days before testing was 47% (95% CI 29-61). This study shows the effectiveness of two doses of BBV152 against symptomatic COVID-19 in the context of a huge surge in cases, presumably dominated by the potentially immune-evasive delta (B.1.617.2) variant of SARS-CoV-2. Our findings support the ongoing roll-out of this vaccine to help control the spread of SARS-CoV-2, while continuing the emphasis on adherence to non-pharmacological measures. None. For the Hindi translation of the abstract see Supplementary Materials section."},"34835166":{"title":"An Advax-Adjuvanted Inactivated Cell-Culture Derived Japanese Encephalitis Vaccine Induces Broadly Neutralising Anti-Flavivirus Antibodies, Robust Cellular Immunity and Provides Single Dose Protection.","abstract":"ccJE+Advax is an inactivated cell culture Japanese encephalitis (JE) vaccine formulated with Advax, a novel polysaccharide adjuvant based on delta inulin. This vaccine has previously shown promise in murine and equine studies and the current study sought to better understand its mechanism of action and assess the feasibility of single dose vaccine protection. Mice immunised with ccJE+Advax had higher serum neutralisation titres than those immunised with ccJE alone or with alum adjuvant. ccJE+Advax induced extraordinarily broad cross-neutralising antibodies against multiple flaviviruses including West Nile virus (WNV), Murray Valley encephalitis virus (MVEV), St Louis encephalitis virus (SLEV) and Dengue virus-1 and -2 (DENV-1 and -2). Notably, the DENV-2 cross-neutralising antibodies from ccJE+Advax immunised mice uniquely had no DENV-2 antibody-dependent infection enhancement (ADIE) activity, in contrast to high ADIE activity seen with DENV-1 cross-reactive antibodies induced by mbJE or ccJE alone or with alum adjuvant. JEV-stimulated splenocytes from ccJE+Advax immunised mice showed increased IL-17 and IFN-γ production, consistent with a mixed Th1 and Th17 response, whereas ccJE-alum was associated with production of mainly Th2 cytokines. In a mouse lethal challenge study against highly virulent JaTH160 JEV strain, ccJE+Advax conferred complete protection in a two-dose schedule with 50 ng of vaccine antigen and near complete protection after a single 200 ng dose of vaccine antigen. There is an ongoing lack of human vaccines against particular flaviviruses, including WNV, SLEV and MVEV. Given its ability to provide single-dose JEV protection and induce broadly neutralising antibodies devoid of ADIE activity, ccJE+Advax vaccine could be useful in situations where rapid protection is desirable, e.g., during a local outbreak or for use in travellers or armies requiring rapid deployment to JEV endemic regions."},"34855754":{"title":"Intratumoral expression of IL-12 from lentiviral or RNA vectors acts synergistically with TLR4 agonist (GLA) to generate anti-tumor immunological memory.","abstract":"Systemic interleukin-12 (IL12) anti-tumor therapy is highly potent but has had limited utility in the clinic due to severe toxicity. Here, we present two IL12-expressing vector platforms, both of which can overcome the deficiencies of previous systemic IL12 therapies: 1) an integrating lentiviral vector, and 2) a self-replicating messenger RNA formulated with polyethyleneimine. Intratumoral administration of either IL12 vector platform resulted in recruitment of immune cells, including effector T cells and dendritic cells, and the complete remission of established tumors in multiple murine models. Furthermore, concurrent intratumoral administration of the synthetic TLR4 agonist glucopyranosyl lipid A formulated in a stable emulsion (GLA-SE) induced systemic memory T cell responses that mediated complete protection against tumor rechallenge in all survivor mice (8/8 rechallenged mice), whereas only 2/6 total rechallenged mice treated with intratrumoral IL12 monotherapy rejected the rechallenge. Taken together, expression of vectorized IL12 in combination with a TLR4 agonist represents a varied approach to broaden the applicability of intratumoral immune therapies of solid tumors."},"34860581":{"title":"A particulate saponin/TLR agonist vaccine adjuvant alters lymph flow and modulates adaptive immunity.","abstract":"Saponins are potent and safe vaccine adjuvants, but their mechanisms of action remain incompletely understood. Here, we explored the properties of several saponin formulations, including immune-stimulatory complexes (ISCOMs) formed by the self-assembly of saponin and phospholipids in the absence or presence of the Toll-like receptor 4 agonist monophosphoryl lipid A (MPLA). We found that MPLA self-assembles with saponins to form particles physically resembling ISCOMs, which we termed saponin/MPLA nanoparticles (SMNP). Saponin-containing adjuvants exhibited distinctive mechanisms of action, altering lymph flow in a mast cell–dependent manner and promoting antigen entry into draining lymph nodes. SMNP was particularly effective, exhibiting even greater potency than the compositionally related adjuvant AS01B in mice, and primed robust germinal center B cell, TFH, and HIV tier 2 neutralizing antibodies in nonhuman primates. Together, these findings shed new light on mechanisms by which saponin adjuvants act to promote the immune response and suggest that SMNP may be a promising adjuvant in the setting of HIV, SARS-CoV-2, and other pathogens."},"34867941":{"title":"Pattern-Recognition Receptor Agonist-Containing Immunopotentiator CVC1302 Boosts High-Affinity Long-Lasting Humoral Immunity.","abstract":"Ideally, a vaccine should provide life-long protection following a single administered dose. In our previous study, the immunopotentiator CVC1302, which contains pattern- recognition receptor (PRR) agonists, was demonstrated to prolong the lifetime of the humoral immune response induced by killed foot-and-mouth disease virus (FMDV) vaccine. To elucidate the mechanism by which CVC1302 induces long-term humoral immunity, we used 4-hydroxy-3-nitrophenylacetyl (NP)-OVA as a pattern antigen and administered it to mice along with CVC1302, emulsified together with Marcol 52 mineral oil (NP-CVC1302). From the results of NP-specific antibody levels, we found that CVC1302 could induce not only higher levels of NP-specific antibodies but also high-affinity NP-specific antibody levels. To detect the resulting NP-specific immune cells, samples were taken from the injection sites, draining lymph nodes (LNs), and bone marrow of mice injected with NP-CVC1302. The results of these experiments show that, compared with mice injected with NP alone, those injected with NP-CVC1302 had higher percentages of NP+ antigen-presenting cells (APCs) at the injection sites and draining LNs, higher percentages of follicular helper T cells (TFH), germinal center (GC) B cells, and NP+ plasma-blasts in the draining LNs, as well as higher percentages of NP+ long-lived plasma cells (LLPCs) in the bone marrow. Additionally, we observed that the inclusion of CVC1302 in the immunization prolonged the lifetime of LLPCs in the bone marrow by improving the transcription expression of anti-apoptotic transcription factors such as Mcl-1, Bcl-2, BAFF, BCMA, Bax, and IRF-4. This research provides a blueprint for designing new generations of immunopotentiators."},"34868027":{"title":"Epigallocatechin-3-Gallate as a Novel Vaccine Adjuvant.","abstract":"Vaccine adjuvants from natural resources have been utilized for enhancing vaccine efficacy against infectious diseases. This study examined the potential use of catechins, polyphenolic materials derived from green tea, as adjuvants for subunit and inactivated vaccines. Previously, catechins have been documented to have irreversible virucidal function, with the possible applicability in the inactivated viral vaccine platform. In a mouse model, the coadministration of epigallocatechin-3-gallate (EGCG) with influenza hemagglutinin (HA) antigens induced high levels of neutralizing antibodies, comparable to that induced by alum, providing complete protection against the lethal challenge. Adjuvant effects were observed for all types of HA antigens, including recombinant full-length HA and HA1 globular domain, and egg-derived inactivated split influenza vaccines. The combination of alum and EGCG further increased neutralizing (NT) antibody titers with the corresponding hemagglutination inhibition (HI) titers, demonstrating a dose-sparing effect. Remarkably, EGCG induced immunoglobulin isotype switching from IgG1 to IgG2a (approximately >64-700 fold increase), exerting a more balanced TH1/TH2 response compared to alum. The upregulation of IgG2a correlated with significant enhancement of antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC) function (approximately 14 fold increase), providing a potent effector-mediated protection in addition to NT and HI. As the first report on a novel class of vaccine adjuvants with built-in virucidal activities, the results of this study will help improve the efficacy and safety of vaccines for pandemic preparedness."},"34900541":{"title":"Genetically-engineered \"all-in-one\" vaccine platform for cancer immunotherapy.","abstract":"An essential step for cancer vaccination is to break the immunosuppression and elicit a tumor-specific immunity. A major hurdle against cancer therapeutic vaccination is the insufficient immune stimulation of the cancer vaccines and lack of a safe and efficient adjuvant for human use. We discovered a novel cancer immunostimulant, trichosanthin (TCS), that is a clinically used protein drug in China, and developed a well-adaptable protein-engineering method for making recombinant protein vaccines by fusion of an antigenic peptide, TCS, and a cell-penetrating peptide (CPP), termed an \"all-in-one\" vaccine, for transcutaneous cancer immunization. The TCS adjuvant effect on antigen presentation was investigated and the antitumor immunity of the vaccines was investigated using the different tumor models. The vaccines were prepared via a facile recombinant method. The vaccines induced the maturation of DCs that subsequently primed CD8+ T cells. The TCS-based immunostimulation was associated with the STING pathway. The general applicability of this genetic engineering strategy was demonstrated with various tumor antigens (i.e., legumain and TRP2 antigenic peptides) and tumor models (i.e., colon tumor and melanoma). These findings represent a useful protocol for developing cancer vaccines at low cost and time-saving, and demonstrates the adjuvant application of TCS-an old drug for a new application."},"34926305":{"title":"Gastrin Vaccine Alone and in Combination With an Immune Checkpoint Antibody Inhibits Growth and Metastases of Gastric Cancer.","abstract":"Gastric cancer is a leading cause of cancer-related deaths worldwide. Recently, clinical studies have demonstrated that many of those with advanced gastric cancer are responsive to immune checkpoint antibody therapy, although the median survival even with these new agents is less than 12 months for advanced disease. The gastrointestinal peptide gastrin has been shown to stimulate growth of gastric cancer in a paracrine and autocrine fashion through the cholecystokinin-B receptor (CCK-BR), a receptor that is expressed in at least 56.6% of human gastric cancers. In the current investigation, we studied the role of the gastrin-CCK-BR pathway in vitro and in vivo as well as the expression of the CCK-BR in a human gastric cancer tissue array. CCK-BR and PD-L1 receptor expression and gastrin peptide was found in two murine gastric cancer cells (NCC-S1 and YTN-16) by qRT-PCR and immunocytochemistry. Treatment of NCC-S1 cells with gastrin resulted in increased growth. In vivo, the effects of a cancer vaccine that targets gastrin peptide (polyclonal antibody stimulator-PAS) alone or in combination with a Programed Death-1 antibody (PD-1 Ab) was evaluated in immune competent mice (N = 40) bearing YTN-16 gastric tumors. Mice were treated with PBS, PD-1 Ab (50 µg), PAS (250 µg), or the combination of PD-1 Ab with PAS. Tumor growth was significantly slower than controls in PAS-treated mice, and tumor growth was decreased even more in combination-treated mice. There were no metastases in any of the mice treated with PAS either alone or in combination with PD-1 Ab. Tumor proliferation by the Ki67 staining was significantly decreased in mice treated with PAS monotherapy or the combination therapy. PAS monotherapy or combined with PD-1 Ab increased tumor CD8+ T-lymphocytes and decreased the number of immunosuppressive M2-polarized tumor-associated macrophages. CCK-BR expression was identified in samples from a human tissue array by immunohistochemistry confirming the clinical relevance of this study. These results confirm the significance of the gastrin-CCK-BR signaling pathway in gastric cancer and suggest that the addition of a gastrin vaccine, PAS, to therapy with an immune checkpoint antibody may decrease growth and metastases of gastric cancer by altering the tumor microenvironment."},"34960154":{"title":"A Combined Adjuvant TF-Al Consisting of TFPR1 and Aluminum Hydroxide Augments Strong Humoral and Cellular Immune Responses in Both C57BL/6 and BALB/c Mice.","abstract":"TFPR1 is a novel adjuvant for protein and peptide antigens, which has been demonstrated in BALB/c mice in our previous studies; however, its adjuvanticity in mice with different genetic backgrounds remains unknown, and its adjuvanticity needs to be improved to fit the requirements for various vaccines. In this study, we first compared the adjuvanticity of TFPR1 in two commonly used inbred mouse strains, BALB/c and C57BL/6 mice, in vitro and in vivo, and demonstrated that TFPR1 activated TLR2 to exert its immune activity in vivo. Next, to prove the feasibility of TFPR1 acting as a major component of combined adjuvants, we prepared a combined adjuvant, TF-Al, by formulating TFPR1 and alum at a certain ratio and compared its adjuvanticity with that of TFPR1 and alum alone using OVA and recombinant HBsAg as model antigens in both BALB/c and C57BL/6 mice. Results showed that TFPR1 acts as an effective vaccine adjuvant in both BALB/c mice and C57BL/6 mice, and further demonstrated the role of TLR2 in the adjuvanticity of TFPR1 in vivo. In addition, we obtained a novel combined adjuvant, TF-Al, based on TFPR1, which can augment antibody and cellular immune responses in mice with different genetic backgrounds, suggesting its promise for vaccine development in the future."},"34971376":{"title":"Efficacy of an Experimental Gonococcal Lipooligosaccharide Mimitope Vaccine Requires Terminal Complement.","abstract":"A safe and effective vaccine against multidrug-resistant gonorrhea is urgently needed. An experimental peptide vaccine called TMCP2 that mimics an oligosaccharide epitope in gonococcal lipooligosaccharide, when adjuvanted with glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant-stable emulsion, elicits bactericidal immunoglobulin G and hastens clearance of gonococci in the mouse vaginal colonization model. In this study, we show that efficacy of TMCP2 requires an intact terminal complement pathway, evidenced by loss of activity in C9-/- mice or when C7 function was blocked. In conclusion, TMCP2 vaccine efficacy in the mouse vagina requires membrane attack complex. Serum bactericidal activity may serve as a correlate of protection for TMCP2."},"34972105":{"title":"Different adjuvanted pediatric HIV envelope vaccines induced distinct plasma antibody responses despite similar B cell receptor repertoires in infant rhesus macaques.","abstract":"Different HIV vaccine regimens elicit distinct plasma antibody responses in both human and nonhuman primate models. Previous studies in human and non-human primate infants showed that adjuvants influenced the quality of plasma antibody responses induced by pediatric HIV envelope vaccine regimens. We recently reported that use of the 3M052-SE adjuvant and longer intervals between vaccinations are associated with higher magnitude of antibody responses in infant rhesus macaques. However, the impact of different adjuvants in HIV vaccine regimens on the developing infant B cell receptor (BCR) repertoire has not been studied. This study evaluated whether pediatric HIV envelope vaccine regimens with different adjuvants induced distinct antigen-specific memory B cell repertoires and whether specific immunoglobulin (Ig) immunogenetic characteristics are associated with higher magnitude of plasma antibody responses in vaccinated infant rhesus macaques. We utilized archived preclinical pediatric HIV vaccine studies PBMCs and tissue samples from 19 infant rhesus macaques immunized either with (i) HIV Env protein with a squalene adjuvant, (ii) MVA-HIV and Env protein co-administered using a 3-week interval, (iii) MVA-HIV prime/ protein boost with an extended 6-week interval between immunizations, or (iv) with HIV Env administered with 3M-052-SE adjuvant. Frequencies of vaccine-elicited HIV Env-specific memory B cells from PBMCs and tissues were similar across vaccination groups (frequency range of 0.06-1.72%). There was no association between vaccine-elicited antigen-specific memory B cell frequencies and plasma antibody titer or avidity. Moreover, the epitope specificity and Ig immunogenetic features of vaccine-elicited monoclonal antibodies did not differ between the different vaccine regimens. These data suggest that pediatric HIV envelope vaccine candidates with different adjuvants that previously induced higher magnitude and quality of plasma antibody responses in infant rhesus macaques were not driven by distinct antigen-specific memory BCR repertoires."},"34973993":{"title":"Recent advances on chitosan as an adjuvant for vaccine delivery.","abstract":"Chitosan (CS) is a natural polymer derived from chitin that has wide applications in drugs, vaccines, and antigen delivery. The distinctive mucoadhesive, biocompatibility, biodegradable, and less toxic properties of chitosan compared to the currently used vaccine adjuvants made it a promising candidate for use as an adjuvant/carrier in vaccine delivery. In addition, chitosan exhibits intrinsic immunomodulating properties making it a suitable adjuvant in preparing vaccines delivery systems. Nanoparticles (NPs) of chitosan and its derivatives loaded with antigen have been shown to induce cellular and humoral responses. Versatility in the physicochemical properties of chitosan can provide an excellent opportunity to engineer antigen-specific adjuvant/delivery systems. This review discusses the recent advances of chitosan and its derivatives as adjuvants in vaccine deliveryand the published literature in the last fifteen years. The impact of physicochemical properties of chitosan on vaccine formulation has been described in detail. Applications of chitosan and its derivatives, their physicochemical properties, and mechanisms in enhancing immune responses have been discussed. Finally, challenges and future aspects of chitosan use has been pointed out."},"34975324":{"title":"CpG-C ODN M362 as an immunoadjuvant for HBV therapeutic vaccine reverses the systemic tolerance against HBV.","abstract":"Chronic Hepatitis B virus (CHB) infection is a global public health problem. Oligodeoxynucleotides (ODNs) containing class C unmethylated cytosine-guanine dinucleotide (CpG-C) motifs may provide potential adjuvants for the immunotherapeutic strategy against CHB, since CpG-C ODNs stimulate both B cell and dendritic cell (DC) activation. However, the efficacy of CpG-C ODN as an anti-HBV vaccine adjuvant remains unclear. In this study, we demonstrated that CpG M362 (CpG-C ODN) as an adjuvant in anti-HBV vaccine (cHBV-vaccine) successfully and safely eliminated the virus in HBV-carrier mice. The cHBV-vaccine enhanced DC maturation both in vivo and in vitro, overcame immune tolerance, and recovered exhausted T cells in HBV-carrier mice. Furthermore, the cHBV-vaccine elicited robust hepatic HBV-specific CD8+ and CD4+ T cell responses, with increased cellular proliferation and IFN-γ secretion. Additionally, the cHBV-vaccine invoked a long-lasting follicular CXCR5+ CD8+ T cell response following HBV re-challenge. Taken together, CpG M362 in combination with rHBVvac cleared persistent HBV and achieved long-term virological control, making it a promising candidate for treating CHB."},"35003132":{"title":"S-540956, a CpG Oligonucleotide Annealed to a Complementary Strand With an Amphiphilic Chain Unit, Acts as a Potent Cancer Vaccine Adjuvant by Targeting Draining Lymph Nodes.","abstract":"Robust induction of cancer-antigen-specific CD8+ T cells is essential for the success of cancer peptide vaccines, which are composed of a peptide derived from a cancer-specific antigen and an immune-potentiating adjuvant, such as a Toll-like receptor (TLR) agonist. Efficient delivery of a vaccine antigen and an adjuvant to antigen-presenting cells in the draining lymph nodes (LNs) holds key to maximize vaccine efficacy. Here, we developed S-540956, a novel TLR9-agonistic adjuvant consisting of B-type CpG ODN2006 (also known as CpG7909), annealed to its complementary sequence oligodeoxynucleotide (ODN) conjugated to a lipid; it could target both a cancer peptide antigen and a CpG-adjuvant in the draining LNs. S-540956 accumulation in the draining LNs and activation of plasmacytoid dendritic cells (pDCs) were significantly higher than that of ODN2006. Mechanistic analysis revealed that S-540956 enhanced the induction of MHC class I peptide-specific CD8+ T cell responses via TLR9 in a CD4+ T cell-independent manner. In mice, the therapeutic effect of S-540956-adjuvanted with a human papillomavirus (HPV)-E7 peptide vaccine against HPV-E7-expressing TC-1 tumors was significantly better than that of an ODN2006-adjuvanted vaccine. Our findings demonstrate a novel adjuvant discovery with the complementary strand conjugated to a lipid, which enabled draining LN targeting and increased ODN2006 accumulation in draining LNs, thereby enhancing the adjuvant effect. Our findings imply that S-540956 is a promising adjuvant for cancer peptide vaccines and has a high potential for applications in various vaccines, including recombinant protein vaccines."},"35011696":{"title":"Caspase-1-Dependent Pyroptosis Mediates Adjuvant Activity of Platycodin D as an Adjuvant for Intramuscular Vaccines.","abstract":"Platycodin D (PD) is a potent adjuvant with dual Th1 and Th2 potentiating activity, but its mechanisms of action remain unclear. Here, the C2C12 myoblast cell line and mice were used as in vitro and in vivo models to identify potential signaling pathways involved in the adjuvant activity of PD. PD induced a transient cytotoxicity and inflammatory response in the C2C12 cells and in mouse quadricep muscles. A comparative analysis of microarray data revealed that PD induced similar gene expression profiles in the C2C12 cells and in the quadricep muscles, and triggered rapid regulation of death, immune, and inflammation-related genes, both in vivo and in vitro. It was further demonstrated that caspase-1-dependent pyroptosis was involved in the PD-induced cytotoxicity and inflammatory response in the C2C12 cells via the Ca2+-c-jun N-terminal kinase (JNK)/p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK)-NLR family pyrin domain containing 3 (NLRP3) inflammasome signaling pathway. Consistently, the in vivo analysis revealed that a local blockage of NLRP3 and caspase-1 inhibited PD-induced cytokine production and immune cell recruitment at the injection site, and impaired the adjuvant activity of PD on antigen-specific immune responses to model antigen ovalbumin (OVA) in mice. These findings identified the caspase-1-dependent adjuvanticity of PD and expanded the current knowledge on the mechanisms of action of saponin-based adjuvants."},"35036074":{"title":"Personalized therapy with peptide-based neoantigen vaccine (EVX-01) including a novel adjuvant, CAF®09b, in patients with metastatic melanoma.","abstract":"The majority of neoantigens arise from unique mutations that are not shared between individual patients, making neoantigen-directed immunotherapy a fully personalized treatment approach. Novel technical advances in next-generation sequencing of tumor samples and artificial intelligence (AI) allow fast and systematic prediction of tumor neoantigens. This study investigates feasibility, safety, immunity, and anti-tumor potential of the personalized peptide-based neoantigen vaccine, EVX-01, including the novel CD8+ T-cell inducing adjuvant, CAF®09b, in patients with metastatic melanoma (NTC03715985). The AI platform PIONEERTM was used for identification of tumor-derived neoantigens to be included in a peptide-based personalized therapeutic cancer vaccine. EVX-01 immunotherapy consisted of 6 administrations with 5-10 PIONEERTM-predicted neoantigens as synthetic peptides combined with the novel liposome-based Cationic Adjuvant Formulation 09b (CAF®09b) to strengthen T-cell responses. EVX-01 was combined with immune checkpoint inhibitors to augment the activity of EVX-01-induced immune responses. The primary endpoint was safety, exploratory endpoints included feasibility, immunologic and objective responses. This interim analysis reports the results from the first dose-level cohort of five patients. We documented a short vaccine manufacturing time of 48-55 days which enabled the initiation of EVX-01 treatment within 60 days from baseline biopsy. No severe adverse events were observed. EVX-01 elicited long-lasting EVX-01-specific T-cell responses in all patients. Competitive manufacturing time was demonstrated. EVX-01 was shown to be safe and able to elicit immune responses targeting tumor neoantigens with encouraging early indications of a clinical and meaningful antitumor efficacy, warranting further study."},"35057003":{"title":"A Polylactide-Based Micellar Adjuvant Improves the Intensity and Quality of Immune Response.","abstract":"Micelles from amphiphilic polylactide-block-poly(N-acryloxysuccinimide-co-N-vinylpyrrolidone) (PLA-b-P(NAS-co-NVP)) block copolymers of 105 nm in size were characterized and evaluated in a vaccine context. The micelles were non-toxic in vitro (both in dendritic cells and HeLa cells). In vitro fluorescence experiments combined with in vivo fluorescence tomography imaging, through micelle loading with the DiR near infrared probe, suggested an efficient uptake of the micelles by the immune cells. The antigenic protein p24 of the HIV-1 was successfully coupled on the micelles using the reactive N-succinimidyl ester groups on the micelle corona, as shown by SDS-PAGE analyses. The antigenicity of the coupled antigen was preserved and even improved, as assessed by the immuno-enzymatic (ELISA) test. Then, the performances of the micelles in immunization were investigated and compared to different p24-coated PLA nanoparticles, as well as Alum and MF59 gold standards, following a standardized HIV-1 immunization protocol in mice. The humoral response intensity (IgG titers) was substantially similar between the PLA micelles and all other adjuvants over an extended time range (one year). More interestingly, this immune response induced by PLA micelles was qualitatively higher than the gold standards and PLA nanoparticles analogs, expressed through an increasing avidity index over time (>60% at day 365). Taken together, these results demonstrate the potential of such small-sized micellar systems for vaccine delivery."},"35093824":{"title":"A solid-in-oil-in-water emulsion: An adjuvant-based immune-carrier enhances vaccine effect.","abstract":"The biomaterial-based immunoengineering has become one of the most attractive research fields in the last decade. In the present study, a solid-in-oil-in-water (S/O/W) emulsion encapsulating antigen in the oil phase of an oil-in-water (O/W) emulsion was prepared as a novel vaccine carrier consisting of similar materials to the emulsion adjuvant of which the safety, immunogenicity and vaccination efficacy have been already confirmed in human. Direct observation by high-resolution confocal laser scanning microscopy and small angle X-ray scattering analysis showed that the antigens were dispersed inside of the oil phase of the S/O/W emulsion as solid-state particles. The S/O/W emulsion robustly produced antigen-specific antibodies and enhanced the antitumor effects in a therapeutic cancer vaccination compared with free antigens or the O/W emulsion in vivo. This result is in good agreement with the activation effect of antigen-specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes and antigen presentation by the S/O/W emulsion, indicating that the S/O/W emulsion consisting of already approved materials is a promising vaccine carrier to produce both humoral and cellular immunity."},"35095921":{"title":"Use of a Clostridioides difficile Murine Immunization and Challenge Model to Evaluate Single and Combination Vaccine Adjuvants Consisting of Alum and NKT Cell-Activating Ligands.","abstract":"Adjuvant combinations may enhance or broaden the expression of immune responses to vaccine antigens. Information on whether established Alum type adjuvants can be combined with experimental CD1d ligand adjuvants is currently lacking. In this study, we used a murine Clostridioides difficile immunization and challenge model to evaluate Alum (Alhydrogel™), α-galactosylceramide (α-GC), and one of its analogs 7DW8-5 singly and in combination as vaccine adjuvants. We observed that the Alum/α-GC combination caused modest enhancement of vaccine antigen-specific IgG1 and IgG2b responses, and a broadening to include IgG2c that did not significantly impact overall protection. Similar observations were made using the Alum/7DW8-5 combination. Examination of the impact of adjuvants on NKT cells revealed expansion of invariant NKT (iNKT) cells with modest expansion of their iNKTfh subset and little effect on diverse NKT (dNKT) cells. Side effects of the adjuvants was determined and revealed transient hepatotoxicity when Alum/α-GC was used in combination but not singly. In summary these results showed that the Alum/α-GC or the Alum/7DW8-5 combination could exert distinct effects on the NKT cell compartment and on isotype switch to produce Th1-driven IgG subclasses in addition to Alum/Th2-driven subclasses. While Alum alone was efficacious in stimulating IgG-mediated protection, and α-GC offered no apparent additional benefit in the C. difficile challenge model, the work herein reveals immune response features that could be optimized and harnessed in other vaccine contexts."},"35110359":{"title":"Intratumoral IL-1R1 expression delineates a distinctive molecular subset with therapeutic resistance in patients with gastric cancer.","abstract":"With the essential role of interleukin-1 signaling in cancer-related inflammation, IL-1R1, the main receptor for both IL-1α and IL-1β, demonstrated therapeutic potential in several types of cancer, which has been put into clinical trials. However, the expression profile and critical role of IL-1R1 in gastric cancer (GC) remain obscure. This study aimed to investigate the prognostic significance of IL-1R1 expression and its predictive value for chemotherapy and immunotherapy in GC. The study enrolled three cohorts, consisting of 409 tumor microarray specimens of GC patients from Zhongshan Hospital, 341 transcriptional data from The Cancer Genome Atlas, and 45 transcriptional data from patients treated with pembrolizumab. IL-1R1 mRNA expression was directly acquired from public datasets, and we also detected IL-1R1 protein expression on tumor microarray by immunohistochemistry. Finally, the associations of IL-1R1 expression with clinical outcomes, immune contexture, and genomic features were analyzed. High IL-1R1 expression predicted poor prognosis and inferior responsiveness to both 5-fluorouracil-based adjuvant chemotherapy (ACT) and immune checkpoint blockade (ICB). IL-1R1 fostered an immunosuppressive microenvironment characterized by upregulated M2 macrophages and exhausted CD8+ T cells infiltration. Moreover, the expression of IL-1R1 was intrinsically linked to genomic alterations associated with targeted therapies in GC. IL-1R1 served as an independent prognosticator and predictive biomarker for ACT and ICB in GC. Furthermore, IL-1R1 antagonists could be a novel agent alone or combined with current therapeutic strategies in GC."},"35124896":{"title":"Sublingual Boosting with a Novel Mucoadhesive Thermogelling Hydrogel Following Parenteral CAF01 Priming as a Strategy Against Chlamydia trachomatis.","abstract":"Chlamydia trachomatis is the most prevalent sexually transmitted disease of bacterial origin. The high number of asymptomatic cases makes it difficult to stop the transmission, requiring vaccine development. Herein, a strategy is proposed to obtain local genital tract immunity against C. trachomatis through parenteral prime and sublingual boost. Subcutaneous administration of chlamydia CTH522 subunit vaccine loaded in the adjuvant CAF01 is combined with sublingual administration of CTH522 loaded in a novel thermosensitive and mucoadhesive hydrogel. Briefly, a ternary optimized hydrogel (OGEL) with desirable biological and physicochemical properties is obtained using artificial intelligence techniques. This formulation exhibits a high gel strength and a strong mucoadhesive, adhesive and cohesive nature. The thermosensitive properties of the hydrogel facilitate application under the tongue. Meanwhile the fast gelation at body temperature together with rapid antigen release should avoid CTH522 leakage by swallowing and increase the contact with sublingual tissue, thus promoting absorption. In vivo studies demonstrate that parenteral-sublingual prime-boost immunization, using CAF01 and OGEL as CTH522 vaccine carriers, shows a tendency to increase cellular (Th1/Th17) immune responses when compared to mucosal or parenteral vaccination alone. Furthermore, parenteral prime with CAF01/CTH522 followed by sublingual boosting with OGEL/CTH522 elicits a local IgA response in the genital tract."},"35125219":{"title":"A phase 1 dose-sparing, randomized clinical trial of seasonal trivalent inactivated influenza vaccine combined with MAS-1, a novel water-in-oil adjuvant/delivery system.","abstract":"New influenza vaccines are needed to increase vaccine efficacy. Adjuvants may allow hemagglutinin (HA) dose-sparing with enhanced immunogenicity. MAS-1 is an investigational low viscosity, free-flowing, water-in-oil emulsion-based adjuvant/delivery system comprised of stable nanoglobular aqueous droplets. A phase 1, double-blind, safety and immunogenicity, HA dose escalation, randomized clinical trial was conducted. MAS-1 adjuvant with 1, 3, 5 or 9 µg per HA derived from licensed seasonal trivalent high dose inactivated influenza vaccine (IIV, Fluzone HD 60 µg per HA) in a 0.3 mL dose were compared to standard dose IIV (Fluzone SD, 15 µg per HA). Safety was measured by reactogenicity, adverse events, and clinical laboratory tests. Serum hemagglutination inhibition (HAI) antibody titers were measured for immunogenicity. Seventy-two subjects, aged 18-47 years, received one dose of either 0.3 mL adjuvanted vaccine or SD IIV intramuscularly. Common injection site and systemic reactions post-vaccination were mild tenderness, induration, pain, headache, myalgia, malaise and fatigue. All reactions resolved within 14 days post-vaccination. Safety laboratory measures were not different between groups. Geometric mean antibody titers, geometric mean fold increases in antibody titer, seroconversion rates and seroprotection rates against vaccine strains were in general higher and of longer duration (day 85 and 169 visits) with MAS-1-adjuvanted IIV at all doses of HA compared with SD IIV. Adjuvanted vaccine induced higher antibody responses against a limited number of non-study vaccine influenza B and A/H3N2 viruses including ones from subsequent years. MAS-1 adjuvant in a 0.3 mL dose volume provided HA dose-sparing effects without safety concerns and induced higher HAI antibody and seroconversion responses through at least 6 months, demonstrating potential to provide greater vaccine efficacy throughout an influenza season in younger adults. In summary, MAS-1 may provide enhanced, more durable and broader protective immunity compared with non-adjuvanted SD IIV. Clinical Trial Registry: ClinicalTrials.gov # NCT02500680."},"35125224":{"title":"MAS-1, a novel water-in-oil adjuvant/delivery system, with reduced seasonal influenza vaccine hemagglutinin dose may enhance potency, durability and cross-reactivity of antibody responses in the elderly.","abstract":"Increased influenza vaccine efficacy is needed in the elderly at high-risk for morbidity and mortality due to influenza infection. Adjuvants may allow hemagglutinin (HA) dose-sparing with enhanced immunogenicity. MAS-1 is an investigational water-in-oil emulsion-based adjuvant/delivery system comprised of stable nanoglobular aqueous droplets. A phase 1, randomized, double-blind, safety and immunogenicity, adjuvant dose escalation trial was conducted in persons aged 65 years and older. MAS-1 adjuvant dose volumes at 0.3 mL or 0.5 mL containing 9 µg per HA derived from licensed seasonal trivalent influenza vaccine (IIV, Fluzone HD 60 µg per HA, Sanofi Pasteur) were compared to high dose (HD) IIV (Fluzone HD). Safety was measured by reactogenicity, adverse events, and safety laboratory measures. Immunogenicity was assessed by serum hemagglutination inhibition (HAI) antibody titers. Forty-five subjects, aged 65-83 years, were randomly assigned to receive 9 µg per HA in 0.3 mL MAS-1 (15 subjects) or HD IIV (15 subjects) followed by groups randomly assigned to receive 9 µg per HA in 0.5 mL MAS-1 (10 subjects) or HD IIV (5 subjects). Injection site tenderness, induration, and pain, and headache, myalgia, malaise and fatigue were common, resolving before day 14 post-vaccination. Clinically significant late-onset injection site reactions occurred in four of ten subjects at the 0.5 mL adjuvant dose. Safety laboratory measures were within acceptable limits. MAS-1-adjuvanted IIV enhanced mean antibody titers, mean-fold increases in antibody titer, and seroconversion rates against vaccine strains for at least 168 days post-vaccination and enhanced cross-reactive antibodies against some non-study vaccine influenza viruses. MAS-1 adjuvant provided HA dose-sparing without safety concerns at the 0.3 mL dose, but the 0.5 mL dose caused late injection site reactions. MAS-1-adjuvanted IIV induced higher HAI antibody responses with prolonged durability including against historical strains, thereby providing greater potential vaccine efficacy in the elderly throughout an influenza season. Clinical Trial Registry: ClinicalTrials.gov # NCT02500680."},"35126135":{"title":"Development and Testing of a Spray-Dried Tuberculosis Vaccine Candidate in a Mouse Model.","abstract":"Converting a vaccine into a thermostable dry powder is advantageous as it reduces the resource burden linked with the cold chain and provides flexibility in dosage and administration through different routes. Such a dry powder presentation may be especially useful in the development of a vaccine towards the respiratory infectious disease tuberculosis (TB). This study assesses the immunogenicity and protective efficacy of spray-dried ID93+GLA-SE, a promising TB vaccine candidate, against Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) in a murine model when administered via different routes. Four administration routes for the spray-dried ID93+GLA-SE were evaluated along with relevant controls-1) reconstitution and intramuscular injection, 2) reconstitution and intranasal delivery, 3) nasal dry powder delivery via inhalation, and 4) pulmonary dry powder delivery via inhalation. Dry powder intranasal and pulmonary delivery was achieved using a custom nose-only inhalation device, and optimization using representative vaccine-free powder demonstrated that approximately 10 and 44% of the maximum possible delivered dose would be delivered for intranasal delivery and pulmonary delivery, respectively. Spray-dried powder was engineered according to the different administration routes including maintaining approximately equivalent delivered doses of ID93 and GLA. Vaccine properties of the different spray-dried lots were assessed for quality control in terms of nanoemulsion droplet diameter, polydispersity index, adjuvant content, and antigen content. Our results using the Mtb mouse challenge model show that both intranasal reconstituted vaccine delivery as well as pulmonary dry powder vaccine delivery resulted in Mtb control in infected mice comparable to traditional intramuscular delivery. Improved protection in these two vaccinated groups over their respective control groups coincided with the presence of cytokine-producing T cell responses. In summary, our results provide novel vaccine formulations and delivery routes that can be harnessed to provide protection against Mtb infection."},"35148840":{"title":"An adjuvant strategy enabled by modulation of the physical properties of microbial ligands expands antigen immunogenicity.","abstract":"Activation of the innate immune system via pattern recognition receptors (PRRs) is key to generate lasting adaptive immunity. PRRs detect unique chemical patterns associated with invading microorganisms, but whether and how the physical properties of PRR ligands influence the development of the immune response remains unknown. Through the study of fungal mannans, we show that the physical form of PRR ligands dictates the immune response. Soluble mannans are immunosilent in the periphery but elicit a potent pro-inflammatory response in the draining lymph node (dLN). By modulating the physical form of mannans, we developed a formulation that targets both the periphery and the dLN. When combined with viral glycoprotein antigens, this mannan formulation broadens epitope recognition, elicits potent antigen-specific neutralizing antibodies, and confers protection against viral infections of the lung. Thus, the physical properties of microbial ligands determine the outcome of the immune response and can be harnessed for vaccine development."},"35163772":{"title":"A Novel Prophylaxis Strategy Using Liposomal Vaccine Adjuvant CAF09b Protects against Influenza Virus Disease.","abstract":"The SARS-CoV-2 pandemic caused a massive health and societal crisis, although the fast development of effective vaccines reduced some of the impact. To prepare for future respiratory virus pandemics, a pan-viral prophylaxis could be used to control the initial virus outbreak in the period prior to vaccine approval. The liposomal vaccine adjuvant CAF®09b contains the TLR3 agonist polyinosinic:polycytidylic acid, which induces a type I interferon (IFN-I) response and an antiviral state in the affected tissues. When testing CAF09b liposomes as a potential pan-viral prophylaxis, we observed that intranasal administration of CAF09b liposomes to mice resulted in an influx of innate immune cells into the nose and lungs and upregulation of IFN-I-related gene expression. When CAF09b liposomes were administered prior to challenge with mouse-adapted influenza A/Puerto Rico/8/1934 virus, it protected from severe disease, although the virus was still detectable in the lungs. However, when CAF09b liposomes were administered after influenza challenge, the mice had a similar disease course to controls. In conclusion, CAF09b may be a suitable candidate as a pan-viral prophylactic treatment for epidemic viruses, but must be administered prior to virus exposure to be effective."},"35177300":{"title":"Pyroptosis-inducing active caspase-1 as a genetic adjuvant in anti-cancer DNA vaccination.","abstract":"Pyroptosis is a recently discovered form of inflammatory programmed necrosis characterized by caspase-1-mediated and gasdermin D-dependent cell death leading to the release of pro-inflammatory cytokines such as Interleukin-1 beta (IL-1β). Here, we evaluated whether pyroptosis could be exploited in DNA vaccination by incorporating a constitutively active variant of caspase-1 to the antigen-expressing DNA. In vitro, transfection with constitutively active caspase-1 DNA induced pro-IL-1β maturation and IL-1β release as well as gasdermin D-dependent cell death. To test active caspase-1 as a genetic adjuvant for the induction of antigen-specific T cell responses, mice were vaccinated intradermally with a DNA vaccine consisting of the active caspase-1 plasmid together with a plasmid encoding an ovalbumin-derived CD8 T cell epitope. Active caspase-1 accelerated and amplified antigen-specific CD8 T cell responses when administered simultaneously with the DNA vaccine at an equimolar dose. Moreover, upon challenge with melanoma cells expressing ovalbumin, mice vaccinated with the antigen vaccine adjuvanted with active caspase-1 showed significantly better survival compared to the non-adjuvanted group. In conclusion, we have developed a novel genetic adjuvant that for the first time employs the pyroptosis pathway to improve DNA vaccination against cancer."},"35214698":{"title":"Vaccine Candidate Double Mutant Variants of Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli Heat-Stable Toxin.","abstract":"Heat-stable enterotoxin (ST) producing enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli (ETEC) strains are among the top four enteropathogens associated with moderate-to-severe diarrhea in children under five years in low-to-middle income countries, thus making ST a target for an ETEC vaccine. However, ST must be mutated to abolish its enterotoxicity and to prevent a potential immunological cross-reaction due to its structural resemblance to the human peptides uroguanylin and guanylin. To reduce the risk of eliciting cross-reacting antibodies with our lead STh-A14T toxoid, L9 was chosen as an additional mutational target. A double mutant vaccine candidate immunogen, STh-L9A/A14T, was constructed by conjugation to the synthetic virus-like mi3 nanoparticle using the SpyTag/SpyCatcher technology. This immunogen elicited STh neutralizing antibodies in mice, but with less consistency than STh-A14T peptide control immunogens. Moreover, individual sera from mice immunized with both single and double mutant variants displayed varying levels of unwanted cross-reacting antibodies. The lowest levels of cross-reacting antibodies were observed with STh-L9K/A14T control immunogens, suggesting that it is indeed possible to reduce the risk of eliciting cross-reacting antibodies by mutation. However, mutant-specific antibodies were observed for most double mutant immunogens, demonstrating the delicate balancing act between disrupting cross-reacting epitopes, keeping protective ones, and avoiding the formation of neoepitopes."},"35251040":{"title":"Incorporation of Toll-Like Receptor Ligands and Inflammasome Stimuli in GM3 Liposomes to Induce Dendritic Cell Maturation and T Cell Responses.","abstract":"Cancer vaccination aims to activate immunity towards cancer cells and can be achieved by delivery of cancer antigens together with immune stimulatory adjuvants to antigen presenting cells (APC). APC maturation and antigen processing is a subsequent prerequisite for T cell priming and anti-tumor immunity. In order to specifically target APC, nanoparticles, such as liposomes, can be used for the delivery of antigen and adjuvant. We have previously shown that liposomal inclusion of the ganglioside GM3, an endogenous ligand for CD169, led to robust uptake by CD169-expressing APC and resulted in strong immune responses when supplemented with a soluble adjuvant. To minimize the adverse effects related to a soluble adjuvant, immune stimulatory molecules can be incorporated in liposomes to achieve targeted delivery of both antigen and adjuvant. In this study, we incorporated TLR4 (MPLA) or TLR7/8 (3M-052) ligands in combination with inflammasome stimuli, 1-palmitoyl-2-glutaryl-sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine (PGPC) or muramyl dipeptide (MDP), into GM3 liposomes. Incorporation of TLR and inflammasome ligands did not interfere with the uptake of GM3 liposomes by CD169-expressing cells. GM3 liposomes containing a TLR ligand efficiently matured human and mouse dendritic cells in vitro and in vivo, while inclusion of PGPC or MDP had minor effects on maturation. Immunization with MPLA-containing GM3 liposomes containing an immunogenic synthetic long peptide stimulated CD4+ and CD8+ T cell responses, but additional incorporation of either PGPC or MDP did not translate into stronger immune responses. In conclusion, our study indicates that TLRL-containing GM3 liposomes are effective vectors to induce DC maturation and T cell priming and thus provide guidance for further selection of liposomal components to optimally stimulate anti-cancer immune responses."},"35253404":{"title":"Immunotherapy of Malignant Glioma by Noninvasive Administration of TLR9 Agonist CpG Nano-Immunoadjuvant.","abstract":"Immunotherapy with toll like receptor 9 (TLR9) agonist CpG ODN offers an emergent strategy to treat life-threatening malignant glioma. CpG is typically applied invasively by intracranial and intrathecal administration which induces not only poor compliance and lessened potency but also possibly strong adverse effects and immunotoxicity. Here, it is reported that immunotherapy of murine LCPN glioma is greatly boosted by polymersome-steered intravenous and intranasal brain delivery of CpG. CpG is efficiently loaded in apolipoprotein E peptide-directed polymersomes to give blood-brain barrier permeable and glioma and cervical lymph node-homing CpG nano-immunoadjuvant (t-NanoCpG) which strongly stimulates the maturation of dendritic cells, antigen cross-presentation, and production of proinflammatory cytokines in vivo. Intriguingly, both intravenous and intranasal administration of t-NanoCpG brings about significant survival benefits in murine LCPN glioma-bearing mice while free CpG and nontargeted CpG nano-immunoadjuvant (NanoCpG) afford modest therapeutic effects. Moreover, combination of t-NanoCpG with radiotherapy further boosts the immunotherapeutic effects leading to more improved survival rate of mice. This intelligent brain-permeable nano-immunoadjuvant provides a new, minimally invasive and highly potent strategy for immunotherapy of glioma."},"35288576":{"title":"Intranasal administration of BReC-CoV-2 COVID-19 vaccine protects K18-hACE2 mice against lethal SARS-CoV-2 challenge.","abstract":"SARS-CoV-2 is a viral respiratory pathogen responsible for the current global pandemic and the disease that causes COVID-19. All current WHO approved COVID-19 vaccines are administered through the muscular route. We have developed a prototype two-dose vaccine (BReC-CoV-2) by combining the Receptor Binding Domain (RBD) antigen, via conjugation to Diphtheria toxoid (EcoCRM®). The vaccine is adjuvanted with Bacterial Enzymatic Combinatorial Chemistry (BECC), BECC470. Intranasal (IN) administration of BreC-CoV-2 in K18-hACE2 mice induced a strong systemic and localized immune response in the respiratory tissues which provided protection against the Washington strain of SARS-CoV-2. Protection provided after IN administration of BReC-CoV-2 was associated with decreased viral RNA copies in the lung, robust RBD IgA titers in the lung and nasal wash, and induction of broadly neutralizing antibodies in the serum. We also observed that BReC-CoV-2 vaccination administered using an intramuscular (IM) prime and IN boost protected mice from a lethal challenge dose of the Delta variant of SARS-CoV-2. IN administration of BReC-CoV-2 provided better protection than IM only administration to mice against lethal challenge dose of SARS-CoV-2. These data suggest that the IN route of vaccination induces localized immune responses that can better protect against SARS-CoV-2 than the IM route in the upper respiratory tract."},"35296091":{"title":"A Novel Bacterial Protease Inhibitor Adjuvant in RBD-Based COVID-19 Vaccine Formulations Containing Alum Increases Neutralizing Antibodies, Specific Germinal Center B Cells and Confers Protection Against SARS-CoV-2 Infection in Mice.","abstract":"In this work, we evaluated recombinant receptor binding domain (RBD)-based vaccine formulation prototypes with potential for further clinical development. We assessed different formulations containing RBD plus alum, AddaS03, AddaVax, or the combination of alum and U-Omp19: a novel Brucella spp. protease inhibitor vaccine adjuvant. Results show that the vaccine formulation composed of U-Omp19 and alum as adjuvants has a better performance: it significantly increased mucosal and systemic neutralizing antibodies in comparison to antigen plus alum, AddaVax, or AddaS03. Antibodies induced with the formulation containing U-Omp19 and alum not only increased their neutralization capacity against the ancestral virus but also cross-neutralized alpha, lambda, and gamma variants with similar potency. Furthermore, the addition of U-Omp19 to alum vaccine formulation increased the frequency of RBD-specific geminal center B cells and plasmablasts. Additionally, U-Omp19+alum formulation induced RBD-specific Th1 and CD8+ T-cell responses in spleens and lungs. Finally, this vaccine formulation conferred protection against an intranasal severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) challenge of K18-hACE2 mice."},"35308783":{"title":"A flexible, thermostable nanostructured lipid carrier platform for RNA vaccine delivery.","abstract":"Current RNA vaccines against severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus-2 (SARS-CoV-2) are limited by instability of both the RNA and the lipid nanoparticle delivery system, requiring storage at -20°C or -70°C and compromising universally accessible vaccine distribution. This study demonstrates the thermostability and adaptability of a nanostructured lipid carrier (NLC) delivery system for RNA vaccines that has the potential to address these concerns. Liquid NLC alone is stable at refrigerated temperatures for ≥1 year, enabling stockpiling and rapid deployment by point-of-care mixing with any vaccine RNA. Alternatively, NLC complexed with RNA may be readily lyophilized and stored at room temperature for ≥8 months or refrigerated temperature for ≥21 months while still retaining the ability to express protein in vivo. The thermostability of this NLC/RNA vaccine delivery platform could significantly improve distribution of current and future pandemic response vaccines, particularly in low-resource settings."},"35367069":{"title":"Intradermal fractional-dose inactivated polio vaccine (fIPV) adjuvanted with double mutant Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli heat labile toxin (dmLT) is well-tolerated and augments a systemic immune response to all three poliovirus serotypes in a randomized placebo-controlled trial.","abstract":"Eradication of poliomyelitis globally is constrained by fecal shedding of live polioviruses, both wild-type and vaccine-derived strains, into the environment. Although inactivated polio vaccines (IPV) effectively protect the recipient from clinical poliomyelitis, fecal shedding of live virus still occurs following infection with either wildtype or vaccine-derived strains of poliovirus. In the drive to eliminate the last cases of polio globally, improvements in both oral polio vaccines (OPV) (to prevent reversion to virulence) and injectable polio vaccines (to improve mucosal immunity and prevent viral shedding) are underway. The E. coli labile toxin with two or \"double\" attenuating mutations (dmLT) may boost immunologic responses to IPV, including at mucosal sites. We performed a double-blinded phase I controlled clinical trial to evaluate safety, tolerability, as well as systemic and mucosal immunogenicity of IPV adjuvanted with dmLT, given as a fractional (1/5th) dose intradermally (fIPV-dmLT). Twenty-nine volunteers with no past exposure to OPV were randomized to a single dose of fIPV-dmLT or fIPV alone. fIPV-dmLT was well tolerated, although three subjects had mild but persistent induration and hyperpigmentation at the injection site. A ≥ 4-fold rise in serotype-specific neutralizing antibody (SNA) titers to all three serotypes was seen in 84% of subjects receiving fIPV-dmLT vs. 50% of volunteers receiving IPV alone. SNA titers were higher in the dmLT-adjuvanted group, but only differences in serotype 1 were significant. Mucosal immune responses, as measured by polio serotype specific fecal IgA were minimal in both groups and differences were not seen. fIPV-dmLT may offer a benefit over IPV alone. Beyond NAB responses protecting the individual, studies demonstrating the ability of fIPV-dmLT to prevent viral shedding are necessary. Studies employing controlled human infection models, using monovalent OPV post-vaccine are ongoing. Studies specifically in children may also be necessary and additional biomarkers of mucosal immune responses in this population are needed. Clinicaltrials.gov Identifer: NCT03922061."},"35367581":{"title":"Polyethyleneimine modified Pickering emulsion as a novel adjuvant to induce strong and long-lasting immune responses.","abstract":"Poly (lactic-co-glycolic acid) (PLGA) nanoparticles are widely-investigated vaccine adjuvants owing to their safety, antigen slow-release ability, and good adjuvants activity. This study involved the preparation of the polyethyleneimine-modified immunopotentiator Alhagi honey polysaccharide encapsulated PLGA nanoparticles (PEI-AHPP) and the assembly of the Pickering emulsion with PEI-AHPP as shell and squalene as core (PEI-PPAS). Furthermore, PEI-AHPP and PEI-PPAS were characterized. To assess the strength and type of immune responses induced by different adjuvants, the chickens were immunized with H9N2-absorbed nanoparticle formulations. Our results showed that since the PEI-PPAS possess rough strawberry-like surfaces, a large number of antigens can be absorbed on their surfaces through simple mixing. Compared to PEI-AHPP, PEI-PPAS was found to exhibit better stability and antigen-loading efficiency. The adjuvant activity of the nanoparticles showed PEI-PPAS/H9N2 to induce long-lasting and high Hemagglutination inhibition (HI) titers, high thymus, spleen, and organ index of the bursa of Fabricius. Moreover, the chickens immunized with PEI-PPAS/H9N2 showed a mixture of high CD4+ and CD8a+ T-cells in the spleen and strong Th1 and Th2-type cytokines secretion. Thus, these findings demonstrated PEI-PPAS to be a vaccine adjuvant inducing a mixed cellular and humoral immune response, which can potentially serve as an effective vaccine delivery adjuvant system for the H9N2 antigen."},"35418673":{"title":"ADP-ribosylating adjuvant reveals plasticity in cDC1 cells that drive mucosal Th17 cell development and protection against influenza virus infection.","abstract":"Migratory dendritic cells expressing CD103 are the targets for mucosal vaccines. These belong to either of two lineage-restricted subsets, cDC1 or cDC2 cells, which have been linked to priming of functionally distinct CD4 T cells. However, recent studies have identified plasticity in cDC2 cells with overlapping functions with cDC1 cells, while the converse has not been reported. We genetically engineered a vaccine adjuvant platform that targeted the cholera toxin A1 (CTA1) ADP-ribosylating enzyme to CD103+ cDC1 and cDC2 cells using a single-chain antibody (scFv) to CD103. Unexpectedly, intranasal immunization with the CTA1-svFcCD103 adjuvant modified cDC1 cells to effectively prime Th17 cells, a function previously limited to cDC2 cells. In fact, cDC2 cells were dispensible, while cDC1 cells, lacking in Batf3-/- mice, were critical. Following intranasal immunizations isolated cDC1 cells from mLN exclusively promoted Rorgt+ T cells and IL-17, IL-21, and IL-22 production. Strong CD8 T cell responses through antigen cross presentation by cDC1 cells were also observed. Single-cell RNAseq analysis revealed upregulation of Th17-promoting gene signatures in sorted cDC1 cells. Gene expression in isolated cDC2 cells was largely unaffected. Our finding represents a major shift of paradigm as we have documented functional plasticity in cDC1 cells."},"35436611":{"title":"Safety and immunogenicity of SpikoGen®, an Advax-CpG55.2-adjuvanted SARS-CoV-2 spike protein vaccine: a phase 2 randomized placebo-controlled trial in both seropositive and seronegative populations.","abstract":"We aimed to investigate the immunogenicity and safety of SpikoGen®, a subunit COVID-19 vaccine composed of a recombinant prefusion-stabilized SARS-CoV-2 spike protein combined with the Advax-CpG55.2™ adjuvant, in seronegative and seropositive populations as primary vaccination. This randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind phase 2 trial was conducted on 400 participants randomized 3:1 to receive two doses of 25 μg of SpikoGen® 3 weeks apart or the placebo. The primary safety outcomes were the incidence of solicited adverse events up to 7 days after each dose and unsolicited adverse events up to 28 days after the second dose. The primary immunogenicity outcomes were seroconversion against the S1 protein and the geometric mean concentration of S1 antibodies by days 21 and 35. The SpikoGen® vaccine was well tolerated and no serious adverse events were recorded. The most common solicited adverse events were injection site pain and fatigue, largely graded as mild and transient. By day 35 (2 weeks post second dose), the seroconversion rate against S1 was 63.55 (95% CI: 57.81-69.01) in the SpikoGen® group versus 7.23 (95% CI: 2.7-15.07) in the placebo group. The geometric mean concentration of S1 antibodies was 29.12 (95% CI: 24.32-34.87) in the SpikoGen® group versus 5.53 (95% CI: 4.39-6.97) in the placebo group. Previously infected seropositive volunteers showed a large SARS-CoV-2 humoral response after a single SpikoGen® dose. SpikoGen® had an acceptable safety profile and induced promising humoral and cellular immune responses against SARS-CoV-2."},"35459225":{"title":"An adjuvanted zoster vaccine elicits potent cellular immune responses in mice without QS21.","abstract":"Herpes zoster (HZ) is caused by reactivation of latent varicella-zoster virus (VZV) when VZV-specific cellular immunity is insufficient to control reactivation. Currently, Shingrix, which contains the VZV gE protein and GSK's AS01B adjuvant composed of liposomes formulated with cholesterol, monophosphoryl lipid A (MPL) and QS21, is used for prevention of HZ. However, reactogenicity to Shingrix is common leading to poor patient compliance in receiving one or both shots. Here, we evaluated the immunogenicity of a newly formulated gE protein-based HZ vaccine containing Second-generation Lipid Adjuvant (SLA), a synthetic TLR4 ligand, formulated in an oil-in-water emulsion (SLA-SE) without QS21 (gE/SLA-SE). In VZV-primed mouse models, gE/SLA-SE-induced gE-specific humoral and cellular immune responses at comparable levels to those elicited by Shingrix in young mice, as both gE/SLA-SE and Shingrix induce polyfunctional CD4+ T-cell responses. In aged mice, gE/SLA-SE elicited more robust gE-specific T-cell responses than Shingrix. Furthermore, gE/SLA-SE-induced T-cell responses were sustained until 5 months after immunization. Thus, QS21-free, gE/SLA-SE is a promising candidate for development of gE-based HZ vaccines with high immunogenicity-particularly when targeting an older population."},"35465982":{"title":"Covax-19/Spikogen® vaccine based on recombinant spike protein extracellular domain with Advax-CpG55.2 adjuvant provides single dose protection against SARS-CoV-2 infection in hamsters.","abstract":"COVID-19 presents an ongoing global health crisis. Protein-based COVID-19 vaccines that are well-tolerated, safe, highly-protective and convenient to manufacture remain of major interest. We therefore sought to compare the immunogenicity and protective efficacy of a number of recombinant SARS-CoV-2 spike protein candidates expressed in insect cells. By comparison to a full length (FL) spike protein detergent-extracted nanoparticle antigen, the soluble secreted spike protein extracellular domain (ECD) generated higher protein yields per liter of culture and when formulated with either Alum-CpG55.2 or Advax-CpG55.2 combination adjuvants elicited robust antigen-specific humoral and cellular immunity in mice. In hamsters, the spike ECD when formulated with either adjuvant induced high serum neutralizing antibody titers even after a single dose. When challenged with the homologous SARS-CoV-2 virus, hamsters immunized with the adjuvanted spike ECD exhibited reduced viral load in day 1-3 oropharyngeal swabs and day 3 nasal turbinate tissue and had no recoverable infectious virus in day 3 lung tissue. The reduction in lung viral load correlated with less weight loss and lower lung pathology scores. The formulations of spike ECD with Alum-CpG55.2 or Advax-CpG55.2 were protective even after just a single dose, although the 2-dose regimen performed better overall and required only half the total amount of antigen. Pre-challenge serum neutralizing antibody levels showed a strong correlation with lung protection, with a weaker correlation seen with nasal or oropharyngeal protection. This suggests that serum neutralizing antibody levels may correlate more closely with systemic, rather than mucosal, protection. The spike protein ECD with Advax-CpG55.2 formulation (Covax-19® vaccine) was selected for human clinical development."},"35499090":{"title":"Vaccination inducing durable and robust antigen-specific Th1/Th17 immune responses contributes to prophylactic protection against Mycobacterium avium infection but is ineffective as an adjunct to antibiotic treatment in chronic disease.","abstract":"Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC) causing pulmonary disease in humanshas emerged worldwide. Thus, effective strategies simultaneously aiming to prevent MAC infection and accelerate therapeutic efficacy are required. To this end, subunit vaccine-induced protection against a well-defined virulent Mycobacterium avium (Mav) isolate was assessed as a preventative and therapeutic modality in murine models. Mav-derived culture filtrate antigen (CFA) was used as a vaccine antigen with glucopyranosyl lipid A stable emulsion (GLA-SE) or GLA-SE plus cyclic-di-GMP (GLA-SE/CDG), and we compared the immunogenicities, protective efficacies and immune correlates. Interestingly, CFA+GLA-SE/CDG immunization induced greater CFA-specific Th1/Th17 responses in both the lung and spleen than among the tested groups. Consequently, protective efficacy was optimally achieved with CFA+GLA-SE/CDG by significantly reducing bacterial loads along with long-lasting maintenance of antigen-specific Th1/Th17 cytokine-producing multifunctional T cell responses and relevant cytokine productions. Thus, we employed this subunit vaccine as an adjunct to antibiotic treatment. However, this vaccine was ineffective in further reducing bacterial loads. Collectively, our study demonstrates that strong Mav CFA-specific Th1/Th17 responses are critical for preventative protection against Mav infection but may be ineffective or even detrimental in an established and progressive chronic disease, indicating that different approaches to combating Mav infection are necessary according to vaccination purposes."},"35522938":{"title":"Amino acid sequence determines the adjuvant potency of a D-tetra-peptide hydrogel.","abstract":"The development of novel vaccine adjuvants is essential for the production of modern vaccines against infectious agents and cancer. We recently reported a supramolecular hydrogel of a self-assembling D-tetra-peptide named Nap-GDFDFDY (Gel-gffy) that can evoke potent humoral and cellular immune responses; however, the determinants of its immunostimulatory properties were not characterized. In this study, we show that the amino acid sequence of the peptide determines the adjuvant potency of Gel-gffy. We designed and synthesized five Gel-gffy variants (Sol-gfgy, Sol-ggfy, Gel-gffg, Gel-gfyf, and Gel-gyff) by substituting the phenylalanine and tyrosine to glycine or changing the position of the tyrosine in the parent D-tetra-peptide. First, we characterized their gelation properties, nanomorphology, and secondary structure using transmission electron microscopy and circular dichroism; next, we examined their immunostimulatory properties. Gel-gfyf, Gel-gyff and Gel-gffy markedly upregulated maturation marker expression on bone marrow-derived dendritic cells. Moreover, the Gel-gfyf-, Gel-gyff- or Gel-gffy-encapsulated ovalbumin (OVA) vaccine induced robust humoral and cellular immune response in vivo. Notably, Gel-gffy had the strongest immunostimulatory activity. Our findings demonstrate that both the position and number of aromatic amino acids are crucial in determining the adjuvant potency of Gel-gffy, thus providing a valuable insight into designing peptide hydrogels as vaccine adjuvants."},"35529885":{"title":"IL-27 Improves Prophylactic Protection Provided by a Dead Tumor Cell Vaccine in a Mouse Melanoma Model.","abstract":"The protocol used to induce cell death for generating vaccines from whole tumor cells is a critical consideration that impacts vaccine efficacy. Here we compared how different protocols used to induce cell death impacted protection provided by a prophylactic whole tumor cell vaccine in a mouse melanoma model. We found that melanoma cells exposed to γ-irradiation or lysis combined with UV-irradiation (LyUV) provided better protection against tumor challenge than lysis only or cells exposed to UV-irradiation. Furthermore, we found that the immunoregulatory cytokine, IL-27 enhanced protection against tumor growth in a dose-dependent manner when combined with either LyUV or γ-irradiated whole tumor cell vaccine preparations. Taken together, this data supports the use of LyUV as a potential protocol for developing whole tumor cell prophylactic cancer vaccines. We also showed that IL-27 can be used at low doses as a potent adjuvant in combination with LyUV or γ-irradiation treated cancer cells to improve the protection provided by a prophylactic cancer vaccine in a mouse melanoma model."},"35534312":{"title":"Corrigendum to \"Intradermal fractional-dose inactivated polio vaccine (fIPV) adjuvanted with double mutant Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli heat labile toxin (dmLT) is well-tolerated and augments a systemic immune response to all three poliovirus serotypes in a randomized active-controlled trial\" [Vaccine 40(19) (2022) 2705-2713].","abstract":""},"35563292":{"title":"Low-Dose SARS-CoV-2 S-Trimer with an Emulsion Adjuvant Induced Th1-Biased Protective Immunity.","abstract":"During the sustained COVID-19 pandemic, global mass vaccination to achieve herd immunity can prevent further viral spread and mutation. A protein subunit vaccine that is safe, effective, stable, has few storage restrictions, and involves a liable manufacturing process would be advantageous to distribute around the world. Here, we designed and produced a recombinant spike (S)-Trimer that is maintained in a prefusion state and exhibits a high ACE2 binding affinity. Rodents received different doses of S-Trimer (0.5, 5, or 20 μg) antigen formulated with aluminum hydroxide (Alum) or an emulsion-type adjuvant (SWE), or no adjuvant. After two vaccinations, the antibody response, T-cell responses, and number of follicular helper T-cells (Tfh) or germinal center (GC) B cells were assessed in mice; the protective efficacy was evaluated on a Syrian hamster infection model. The mouse studies demonstrated that adjuvating the S-Trimer with SWE induced a potent humoral immune response and Th1-biased cellular immune responses (in low dose) that were superior to those induced by Alum. In the Syrian hamster studies, when S-Trimer was adjuvanted with SWE, higher levels of neutralizing antibodies were induced against live SARS-CoV-2 from the original lineage and against the emergence of variants (Beta or Delta) with a slightly decreased potency. In addition, the SWE adjuvant demonstrated a dose-sparing effect; thus, a lower dose of S-Trimer as an antigen (0.5 μg) can induce comparable antisera and provide complete protection from viral infection. These data support the utility of SWE as an adjuvant to enhance the immunogenicity of the S-Trimer vaccine, which is feasible for further clinical testing."},"35572573":{"title":"Early Post-Vaccination Gene Signatures Correlate With the Magnitude and Function of Vaccine-Induced HIV Envelope-Specific Plasma Antibodies in Infant Rhesus Macaques.","abstract":"A better understanding of the impact of early innate immune responses after vaccine priming on vaccine-elicited adaptive immune responses could inform rational design for effective HIV vaccines. The current study compared the whole blood molecular immune signatures of a 3M-052-SE adjuvanted HIV Env protein vaccine to a regimen combining the adjuvanted Env protein with simultaneous administration of a modified Vaccinia Ankara vector expressing HIV Env in infant rhesus macaques at days 0, 1, and 3 post vaccine prime. Both vaccines induced a rapid innate response, evident by elevated inflammatory plasma cytokines and altered gene expression. We identified 25 differentially-expressed genes (DEG) on day 1 compared to day 0 in the HIV protein vaccine group. In contrast, in the group that received both the Env protein and the MVA-Env vaccine only two DEG were identified, implying that the MVA-Env modified the innate response to the adjuvanted protein vaccine. By day 3, only three DEG maintained altered expression, indicative of the transient nature of the innate response. The DEG represented immune pathways associated with complement activation, type I interferon and interleukin signaling, pathogen sensing, and induction of adaptive immunity. DEG expression on day 1 was correlated to Env-specific antibody responses, in particular antibody-dependent cytotoxicity responses at week 34, and Env-specific follicular T helper cells. Results from network analysis supported the interaction of DEG and their proteins in B cell activation. These results emphasize that vaccine-induced HIV-specific antibody responses can be optimized through the modulation of the innate response to the vaccine prime."},"35585969":{"title":"Monocytes Elicit a Neutrophil-Independent Th1/Th17 Response Upon Immunization With a Mincle-Dependent Glycolipid Adjuvant.","abstract":"Successful subunit vaccination with recombinant proteins requires adjuvants. The glycolipid trehalose-dibehenate (TDB), a synthetic analog of the mycobacterial cord factor, potently induces Th1 and Th17 immune responses and is a candidate adjuvant for human immunization. TDB binds to the C-type lectin receptor Mincle and triggers Syk-Card9-dependent APC activation. In addition, interleukin (IL)-1 receptor/MyD88-dependent signaling is required for TDB adjuvanticity. The role of different innate immune cell types in adjuvant-stimulated Th1/Th17 responses is not well characterized. We investigated cell recruitment to the site of injection (SOI) and to the draining lymph nodes (dLNs) after immunization with the TDB containing adjuvant CAF01 in a protein-based vaccine. Recruitment of monocytes and neutrophils to the SOI and the dramatic increase in lymph node cellularity was partially dependent on both Mincle and MyD88. Despite their large numbers at the SOI, neutrophils were dispensable for the induction of Th1/Th17 responses. In contrast, CCR2-dependent monocyte recruitment was essential for the induction of Th1/Th17 cells. Transport of adjuvant to the dLN did not require Mincle, MyD88, or CCR2. Together, adjuvanticity conferred by monocytes can be separated at the cellular level from potential tissue damage by neutrophils."},"35600886":{"title":"Immunoadjuvant Nanoparticles as Trojan Horses for Enhanced Photo-Immunotherapy in the Treatment of Triple-Negative Breast Cancer.","abstract":"Treatment of triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) faces great challenges due to high invasiveness and poor prognosis. Therefore, effective treatment methods are urgently needed to control primary tumors and suppress distant tumors. Herein, we employed glycated chitosan (GC), a polysaccharide macromolecular immunoadjuvant, to construct a self-assembly GC@ICG nanoparticle which is accessible to tumor cells for synergistic cancer treatment based on the combination of phototherapy and immunotherapy. In this strategy, the self-associated synthesis of spherical GC@ICG significantly improved the stability of ICG and endowed GC with Trojan Horses in tumor cells to enhance tumor immunogenicity. A bilateral 4T1 tumor-bearing mouse model was established to evaluate the therapeutic outcomes and specific host antitumor immune response. Finally, GC@ICG-based phototherapy can directly eliminate primary tumors and resist the progression of untreated distant tumors. In addition, compared to the treatment of L + GC + ICG, GC@ICG-based phototherapy was evidenced to suppress lung metastasis and enhance infiltration of CD8+ T cells in untreated distant tumors. Therefore, this design shows promise in addressing the challenges of the treatment of TNBC."},"35606843":{"title":"Effectiveness of COVID-19 vaccines against SARS-CoV-2 variants of concern: a systematic review and meta-analysis.","abstract":"It was urgent and necessary to synthesize the evidence for vaccine effectiveness (VE) against SARS-CoV-2 variants of concern (VOC). We conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis to provide a comprehensive overview of the effectiveness profile of COVID-19 vaccines against VOC. Published randomized controlled trials (RCTs), cohort studies, and case-control studies that evaluated the VE against VOC (Alpha, Beta, Gamma, Delta, or Omicron) were searched until 4 March 2022. Pooled estimates and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were calculated using random-effects meta-analysis. VE was defined as (1-estimate). Eleven RCTs (161,388 participants), 20 cohort studies (52,782,321 participants), and 26 case-control studies (2,584,732 cases) were included. Eleven COVID-19 vaccines (mRNA-1273, BNT162b2, ChAdOx1, Ad26.COV2.S, NVX-CoV2373, BBV152, CoronaVac, BBIBP-CorV, SCB-2019, CVnCoV, and HB02) were included in this analysis. Full vaccination was effective against Alpha, Beta, Gamma, Delta, and Omicron variants, with VE of 88.0% (95% CI, 83.0-91.5), 73.0% (95% CI, 64.3-79.5), 63.0% (95% CI, 47.9-73.7), 77.8% (95% CI, 72.7-82.0), and 55.9% (95% CI, 40.9-67.0), respectively. Booster vaccination was more effective against Delta and Omicron variants, with VE of 95.5% (95% CI, 94.2-96.5) and 80.8% (95% CI, 58.6-91.1), respectively. mRNA vaccines (mRNA-1273/BNT162b2) seemed to have higher VE against VOC over others; significant interactions (pinteraction < 0.10) were observed between VE and vaccine type (mRNA vaccines vs. not mRNA vaccines). Full vaccination of COVID-19 vaccines is highly effective against Alpha variant, and moderate effective against Beta, Gamma, and Delta variants. Booster vaccination is more effective against Delta and Omicron variants. mRNA vaccines seem to have higher VE against Alpha, Beta, Gamma, and Delta variants over others."},"35651617":{"title":"Potential of Polyethyleneimine as an Adjuvant To Prepare Long-Term and Potent Antifungal Nanovaccine.","abstract":"Candida albicans infections are particularly prevalent in immunocompromised patients. Even with appropriate treatment with current antifungal drugs, the mortality rate of invasive candidiasis remains high. Many positive results have been achieved in the current vaccine development. There are also issues such as the vaccine's protective effect is not persistent. Considering the functionality and cost of the vaccine, it is important to develop safe and efficient new vaccines with long-term effects. In this paper, an antifungal nanovaccine with Polyethyleneimine (PEI) as adjuvant was constructed, which could elicit more effective and long-term immunity via stimulating B cells to differentiate into long-lived plasma cells. Hsp90-CTD is an important target for protective antibodies during disseminated candidiasis. Hsp90-CTD was used as the antigen, then introduced SDS to \"charge\" the protein and added PEI to form the nanovaccine. Dynamic light scattering and transmission electron microscope were conducted to identify the size distribution, zeta potential, and morphology of nanovaccine. The antibody titers in mice immunized with the nanovaccine were measured by ELISA. The activation and maturation of long-lived plasma cells in bone marrow by nanovaccine were also investigated via flow cytometry. Finally, the kidney of mice infected with Candida albicans was stained with H&E and PAS to evaluate the protective effect of antibody in serum produced by immunized mice. Nanoparticles (NP) formed by Hsp90-CTD and PEI are small, uniform, and stable. NP had an average size of 116.2 nm with a PDI of 0.13. After immunizing mice with the nanovaccine, it was found that the nano-group produced antibodies faster and for a longer time. After 12 months of immunization, mice still had high and low levels of antibodies in their bodies. Results showed that the nanovaccine could promote the differentiation of B cells into long-lived plasma cells and maintain the long-term existence of antibodies in vivo. After immunization, the antibodies in mice could protect the mice infected by C. albicans. As an adjuvant, PEI can promote the differentiation of B cells into long-lived plasma cells to maintain long-term antibodies in vivo. This strategy can be adapted for the future design of vaccines."},"35698367":{"title":"Immunoregulatory properties of the cultivated Artemisia rupestris L. polysaccharide as a potential adjuvant.","abstract":"Two components (CARP-1 and CARP-2) were fractionated from cultivated Artemisia rupestris L. and then characterized by HPGPC and HPLC. CARP-1 with a molecular weight of 2.72 × 104 Da and CARP-2 with a molecular weight of 2.08 × 104 Da were mainly composed of galactose, arabinose, glucose and rhamnose. Polysaccharides were the active components as confirmed by the increased CD40, CD86, TNF-α, and IL-6, allogeneic T-cell activation, and reduced endocytosis in vitro assays. CARP-1 and CARP-2 at 10 to 3200 μg/mL was not cytotoxic to the splenocytes of mice. After immunization, CARP-1 and CARP-2 combined with OVA elicited mixed Th1/Th2 responses, especially polarized Th1 response. Furthermore, TLR4 inhibitor decreased CARP-1- and CARP-2-induced DC activation. Western blot revealed that CARP-1 and CARP-2 stimulated the phosphorylation changes of target proteins in NF-κB and MAPK pathways in a dose- or time-related manner. Overall, CARP-1 and CARP-2 could be exploited as an effective and safe adjuvant for vaccines."},"35717995":{"title":"Immunogenicity and reactogenicity of an inactivated SARS-CoV-2 vaccine (BBV152) in children aged 2-18 years: interim data from an open-label, non-randomised, age de-escalation phase 2/3 study.","abstract":"Despite having milder symptoms than adults, children are still susceptible to and can transmit SARS-CoV-2. Vaccination across all age groups is therefore necessary to curtail the pandemic. Among the available COVID-19 vaccine platforms, an inactivated vaccine platform has the advantage of excellent safety profile across all age groups; hence, we conducted an age de-escalation study to assess the safety, reactogenicity, and immunogenicity of an inactivated COVID-19 vaccine, BBV152 (COVAXIN; Bharat Biotech International, Hyderabad, India), in children aged 2-18 years. In this phase 2/3 open-label, non-randomised, multicentre study done in six hospitals in India, healthy children (male or female) aged 2-18 years were eligible for inclusion into the study. Children who had positive SARS-CoV-2 nucleic acid and serology tests at baseline, or any history of previous SARS-CoV-2 infection, or with known immunosuppressive condition were excluded. Children were sequentially enrolled into one of three groups (>12 to ≤18 years [group 1], >6 to 12 years [group 2], or ≥2 to 6 years [group 3]) and administered with adult formulation of BBV152 as two 0·5 mL intramuscular doses on days 0 and 28. Co-primary endpoints were solicited adverse events for 7 days post-vaccination and neutralising antibody titres on day 56, 28 days after the second dose. Immunogenicity endpoints were compared with Biodefense and Emerging Infections, Research Resources Repository (BEI) reference serum samples and from adults who received two doses of BBV152 in the same schedule in a previously reported phase 2 study. The trial is registered with the Clinical Trials Registry, India (CTRI/2021/05/033752) and ClinicalTrials.gov (NCT04918797). From May 27, 2021, to July 10, 2021, we enrolled 526 children sequentially into groups 1 (n=176), 2 (n=175), and 3 (n=175). Vaccination was well tolerated, with no differences in reactogenicity between the three age groups, and no serious adverse events, deaths, or withdrawals due to an adverse event. Local reactions mainly consisted of mild injection site pain in 46 (26%) of 176 participants in group 1, 61 (35%) of 175 in group 2, and 39 (22%) of 175 in group 3 after dose 1; and 39 (22%) of 176 in group 1, 43 of 175 (25%) in group 2, and 14 of 175 (8%) in group 3 after dose 2; there were no cases of severe pain and few reports of other local reactions. After dose 1, the most frequent solicited systemic adverse event was mild-to-moderate fever, reported in eight (5%) of 176 participants in group 1, 17 (10%) of 175 in group 2, and 22 (13%) of 175 in group 3. No case of severe fever was reported, and rates of all fever were all 4% or less after dose 2. Geometric mean titres (GMTs) of microneutralisation antibodies at day 56 in groups 1 (138·8 [95% CI 111·0-173·6]), 2 (137·4 [99·1-167·5]), and 3 (197·6 [176·4-221·4]) were similar to titres in vaccinated adults (160·1 [135·8-188·8]) and with BEI reference serum samples (103·3 [50·3-202·1]). Similar results were obtained using the plaque reduction neutralisation test (PRNT), in which 166 (95%) of 175 participants in group 1, 165 (98%) of 168 in group 2, and 169 (98%) of 172 in group 3 seroconverted at day 56. The GMT ratio of PRNT titres in children and adults was 1·76 (95% CI 1·32-2·33), indicating a superior response in children compared with adults. BBV152 was well tolerated in children aged 2-18 years, and induced higher neutralising antibody responses than those observed in adults, in whom the efficacy (ie, the prevention or decrease in the severity of COVID-19 infection) has been demonstrated. Bharat Biotech International."},"35746469":{"title":"Co-Administration of Adjuvanted Recombinant Ov-103 and Ov-RAL-2 Vaccines Confer Protection against Natural Challenge in A Bovine Onchocerca ochengi Infection Model of Human Onchocerciasis.","abstract":"Onchocerciasis (river blindness), caused by the filarial nematode Onchocerca volvulus, is a neglected tropical disease mainly of sub-Saharan Africa. Worldwide, an estimated 20.9 million individuals live with infection and a further 205 million are at risk of disease. Current control methods rely on mass drug administration of ivermectin to kill microfilariae and inhibit female worm fecundity. The identification and development of efficacious vaccines as complementary preventive tools to support ongoing elimination efforts are therefore an important objective of onchocerciasis research. We evaluated the protective effects of co-administering leading O. volvulus-derived recombinant vaccine candidates (Ov-103 and Ov-RAL-2) with subsequent natural exposure to the closely related cattle parasite Onchocerca ochengi. Over a 24-month exposure period, vaccinated calves (n = 11) were shown to acquire infection and microfilaridermia at a significantly lower rate compared to unvaccinated control animals (n = 10). Furthermore, adult female worm burdens were negatively correlated with anti-Ov-103 and Ov-RAL-2 IgG1 and IgG2 responses. Peptide arrays identified several Ov-103 and Ov-RAL-2-specific epitopes homologous to those identified as human B-cell and helper T-cell epitope candidates and by naturally-infected human subjects in previous studies. Overall, this study demonstrates co-administration of Ov-103 and Ov-RAL-2 with Montanide™ ISA 206 VG is highly immunogenic in cattle, conferring partial protection against natural challenge with O. ochengi. The strong, antigen-specific IgG1 and IgG2 responses associated with vaccine-induced protection are highly suggestive of a mixed Th1/Th2 associated antibody responses. Collectively, this evidence suggests vaccine formulations for human onchocerciasis should aim to elicit similarly balanced Th1/Th2 immune responses."},"35750538":{"title":"A typhoid fever protein capsular matrix vaccine candidate formulated with Advax-CpG adjuvant induces a robust and durable anti-typhoid Vi polysaccharide antibody response in mice, rabbits and nonhuman primates.","abstract":"Typhax is an investigational typhoid fever vaccine candidate that is comprised of Vi polysaccharide from Salmonella enterica serovar typhi (S. Typhi) non-covalently entrapped in a glutaraldehyde catalyzed, cross-linked α-poly-L-lysine and CRM197 protein matrix. A previous Phase 1 trial of an aluminum phosphate adjuvanted Typhax formulation showed it induced Vi IgG after a single dose but that subsequent doses failed to further boost Vi IgG levels. The current study asked whether Advax-CpG adjuvant might instead be able to overcome polysaccharide-induced immune inhibition and improve Typhax immunogenicity. Advax-CpG adjuvanted Typhax elicited high and sustained Vi IgG responses in mice, rabbits and non-human primates (NHP) with levels being boosted by repeated immunization. High Vi antibody responses were lost in CD4 + T cell depleted mice confirming that despite the lack of conjugation of the polysaccharide to the carrier protein, Typhax nevertheless acts in a T cell dependent manner, explaining its ability to induce long-term B cell memory responses to Vi capable of being boosted. In NHP, Advax-CpG adjuvanted Typhax induced up to 100-fold higher Vi IgG levels than the commercial Typhim Vi polysaccharide vaccine. Typhax induced high and sustained serum bactericidal activity against S. Typhi and stimulated robust Vi IgG responses even in animals previously primed with a pure polysaccharide vaccine. Hence Advax-CpG adjuvanted Typhax vaccine is a highly promising candidate to provide robust and durable protection against typhoid fever."},"35758850":{"title":"Immunogenicity and safety of SpikoGen®, an adjuvanted recombinant SARS-CoV-2 spike protein vaccine as a homologous and heterologous booster vaccination: A randomized placebo-controlled trial.","abstract":"SpikoGen® is a subunit recombinant spike protein vaccine combined with Advax-CpG55.2™ adjuvant. This COVID-19 vaccine was shown to be safe, immunogenic and efficacious in previous clinical trials. This study aimed to assess the safety and immunogenicity of SpikoGen® vaccine as a homologous and heterologous booster vaccination. This double-blind and randomized placebo-controlled (5:1) trial was performed on 300 already vaccinated participants. SpikoGen® or saline placebo was administered as a booster dose to participants who had received a full two-dose COVID-19 vaccination course. Immunogenicity assessments were done 14 days after the booster dose with the primary immunogenicity outcome seroconversion rate of neutralizing antibodies. Safety outcomes included the incidence of solicited adverse events up to 7 days after the booster dose. SpikoGen® vaccine induced a robust humoral response both as a homologous and heterologous booster, when compared to the placebo. At Day 14, seroconversion of neutralizing antibodies was 76% (95% confidence interval [CI]: 69%-82%) in the SpikoGen® group versus 3% (95% CI: 0%-13%) in the placebo group. The most common local and systemic reported adverse events were injection site pain and fatigue. No serious adverse events were reported. The SpikoGen®-booster induced cross-neutralization of other SARS-CoV-2 variants. Irrespective of the primary vaccine course received, SpikoGen® vaccine showed promising effects as both a homologous and heterologous booster dose. This vaccine also had a good safety profile with no vaccine-associated serious adverse events. On the basis of these results, SpikoGen® vaccine has been approved as a booster dose."},"35763693":{"title":"Virus-Like Particle-Templated Silica-Adjuvanted Nanovaccines with Enhanced Humoral and Cellular Immunity.","abstract":"Virus-like particles (VLPs) are self-assembled viral proteins that represent a superior form of antigens in vaccine formulations. To enhance immunogenicity, adjuvants, especially the aluminum salts (Alum), are essentially formulated in VLP vaccines. However, Alum only induce biased humoral immune responses that limits further applications of VLP-based vaccines. To stimulate more balanced immunity, we, herein, develop a one-step strategy of using VLPs as the biotemplates to synthesize raspberry-like silica-adjuvanted VLP@Silica nanovaccines. Hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) VLPs and human papillomavirus type 18 (HPV 18) VLPs are selected as model templates. Circular dichroism (CD) and affinity analyses demonstrate that HBsAg VLPs in the nanovaccines maintain their secondary structure and immunogenicity, respectively. VLP@Silica promote silica dissolution-induced lysosomal escape and cytosolic delivery of antigens, and enhance the secretion of both Th1 and Th2 type cytokines in murine bone marrow-derived dendritic cells (BMDCs). Additionally, they could improve antigen trafficking and mediate DC activation in draining lymph nodes (DLNs). Vaccination study demonstrate that both HBsAg VLP@Silica and HPV 18 VLP@Silica nanovaccines induce enhanced antigen-specific antibody productions and T-cell mediated adaptive immune responses. This design strategy can utilize VLPs derived from a diversity of viruses or their variants as templates to construct both prophylactic and therapeutic vaccines with improved immunogenicity."},"3578125":{"title":"The implementation of dietary guidelines.","abstract":""},"35782116":{"title":"Designing Adjuvant Formulations to Promote Immunogenicity and Protective Efficacy of Leptospira Immunoglobulin-Like Protein A Subunit Vaccine.","abstract":"The leptospirosis burden on humans, especially in high-risk occupational groups and livestock, leads to public health and economic problems. Leptospirosis subunit vaccines have been under development and require further improvement to provide complete protection. Adjuvants can be used to enhance the amplitude, quality, and durability of immune responses. Previously, we demonstrated that LMQ adjuvant (neutral liposomes containing monophosphoryl lipid A (MPL) and Quillaja saponaria derived QS21 saponin) promoted protective efficacy of LigAc vaccine against Leptospira challenge. To promote immunogenicity and protective efficacy of the subunit vaccines, three alternative adjuvants based on neutral liposomes or squalene-in-water emulsion were evaluated in this study. LQ and LQuil adjuvants combined the neutral liposomes with the QS21 saponin or Quillaja saponaria derived QuilA® saponin, respectively. SQuil adjuvant combined a squalene-in-water emulsion with the QuilA® saponin. The immunogenicity and protective efficacy of LigAc (20 µg) formulated with the candidate adjuvants were conducted in golden Syrian hamsters. Hamsters were vaccinated three times at a 2-week interval, followed by a homologous challenge of L. interrogans serovar Pomona. The results showed that LigAc combined with LQ, LQuil, or SQuil adjuvants conferred substantial antibody responses and protective efficacy (survival rate, pathological change, and Leptospira renal colonization) comparable to LMQ adjuvant. The LigAc+LQ formulation conferred 62.5% survival but was not significantly different from LigAc+LMQ, LigAc+LQuil, and LigAc+SQuil formulations (50% survival). This study highlights the potential of saponin-containing adjuvants LMQ, LQ, LQuil, and SQuil for both human and animal leptospirosis vaccines."},"35835821":{"title":"Intra-molecular switching for memory and logic.","abstract":""},"35879117":{"title":"EEHV1A glycoprotein B subunit vaccine elicits humoral and cell-mediated immune responses in mice.","abstract":"Asian elephants are an endangered species facing many threats, including severe hemorrhagic disease (HD) caused by the elephant endotheliotropic herpesvirus (EEHV). EEHV-HD is the leading cause of death in captive juvenile Asian elephants in North America and Europe, and also affects elephants in their natural range countries. Significant challenges exist for successful treatment of EEHV-HD, which include timely recognition of disease onset and limited availability of highly effective treatment options. To address this problem, our goal is to prevent lethal disease in young elephants by developing a vaccine that elicits robust and durable humoral and cell-mediated immunity against EEHV. EEHV glycoprotein B (gB) is a major target for cellular and humoral immunity in elephants previously exposed to EEHV. Therefore, we generated a vaccine containing recombinant EEHV1A gB together with a liposome formulated TLR-4 and saponin combination adjuvant (SLA-LSQ). CD-1 mice that received one or two vaccinations with the vaccine elicited significant anti-gB antibody and polyfunctional CD4+ and CD8+ T cell responses, while no adverse effects of vaccination were observed. Overall, our findings demonstrate that an adjuvanted gB protein subunit vaccine stimulates robust humoral and cell-mediated immune responses and supports its potential use in elephants."},"35911728":{"title":"Heterologous saRNA Prime, DNA Dual-Antigen Boost SARS-CoV-2 Vaccination Elicits Robust Cellular Immunogenicity and Cross-Variant Neutralizing Antibodies.","abstract":"We assessed if immune responses are enhanced in CD-1 mice by heterologous vaccination with two different nucleic acid-based COVID-19 vaccines: a next-generation human adenovirus serotype 5 (hAd5)-vectored dual-antigen spike (S) and nucleocapsid (N) vaccine (AdS+N) and a self-amplifying and -adjuvanted S RNA vaccine (AAHI-SC2) delivered by a nanostructured lipid carrier. The AdS+N vaccine encodes S modified with a fusion motif to increase cell-surface expression and an N antigen modified with an Enhanced T-cell Stimulation Domain (N-ETSD) to direct N to the endosomal/lysosomal compartment and increase MHC class I and II stimulation potential. The S sequence in the AAHI-SC2 vaccine comprises the D614G mutation, two prolines to stabilize S in the prefusion conformation, and 3 glutamines in the furin cleavage region to confer protease resistance. CD-1 mice received vaccination by homologous and heterologous prime > boost combinations. Humoral responses to S were the highest with any regimen that included the AAHI-SC2 vaccine, and IgG bound to wild type and Delta (B.1.617.2) variant S1 at similar levels. An AAHI-SC2 prime followed by an AdS+N boost particularly enhanced CD4+ and CD8+ T-cell responses to both wild type and Delta S peptides relative to all other vaccine regimens. Sera from mice receiving AAHI-SC2 homologous or heterologous vaccination were found to be highly neutralizing for all pseudovirus strains tested: Wuhan, Beta, Delta, and Omicron strains. The findings here, taken in consideration with the availability of both vaccines in thermostable formulations, support the testing of heterologous vaccination by an AAHI-SC2 > AdS+N regimen in animal models of SARS-CoV-2 infection to assess its potential to provide increased protection against emerging SARS-CoV-2 variants particularly in regions of the world where the need for cold-chain storage has limited the distribution of other vaccines."},"35968964":{"title":"RBD-VLP Vaccines Adjuvanted with Alum or SWE Protect K18-hACE2 Mice against SARS-CoV-2 VOC Challenge.","abstract":"The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic has contributed largely to the global vaccine disparity. Development of protein subunit vaccines can help alleviate shortages of COVID-19 vaccines delivered to low-income countries. Here, we evaluated the efficacy of a three-dose virus-like particle (VLP) vaccine composed of hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) decorated with the receptor binding domain (RBD) from the Wuhan or Beta SARS-CoV-2 strain adjuvanted with either aluminum hydroxide (alum) or squalene in water emulsion (SWE). RBD HBsAg vaccines were compared to the standard two doses of Pfizer mRNA vaccine. Alum-adjuvanted vaccines were composed of either HBsAg conjugated with Beta RBD alone (β RBD HBsAg+Al) or a combination of both Beta RBD HBsAg and Wuhan RBD HBsAg (β/Wu RBD HBsAg+Al). RBD vaccines adjuvanted with SWE were formulated with Beta RBD HBsAg (β RBD HBsAg+SWE) or without HBsAg (β RBD+SWE). Both alum-adjuvanted RBD HBsAg vaccines generated functional RBD IgG against multiple SARS-CoV-2 variants of concern (VOC), decreased viral RNA burden, and lowered inflammation in the lung against Alpha or Beta challenge in K18-hACE2 mice. However, only β/Wu RBD HBsAg+Al was able to afford 100% survival to mice challenged with Alpha or Beta VOC. Furthermore, mice immunized with β RBD HBsAg+SWE induced cross-reactive neutralizing antibodies against major VOC of SARS-CoV-2, lowered viral RNA burden in the lung and brain, and protected mice from Alpha or Beta challenge similarly to mice immunized with Pfizer mRNA. However, RBD+SWE immunization failed to protect mice from VOC challenge. Our findings demonstrate that RBD HBsAg VLP vaccines provided similar protection profiles to the approved Pfizer mRNA vaccines used worldwide and may offer protection against SARS-CoV-2 VOC. IMPORTANCE Global COVID-19 vaccine distribution to low-income countries has been a major challenge of the pandemic. To address supply chain issues, RBD virus-like particle (VLP) vaccines that are cost-effective and capable of large-scale production were developed and evaluated for efficacy in preclinical mouse studies. We demonstrated that RBD-VLP vaccines protected K18-hACE2 mice against Alpha or Beta challenge similarly to Pfizer mRNA vaccination. Our findings showed that the VLP platform can be utilized to formulate immunogenic and efficacious COVID-19 vaccines."},"36037155":{"title":"In silico analysis and in planta production of recombinant ccl21/IL1β protein and characterization of its in vitro anti-tumor and immunogenic activity.","abstract":"CCL21 has an essential role in anti-tumor immune activity. Epitopes of IL1β have adjuvant activity without causing inflammatory responses. CCR7 and its ligands play a vital role in the immune balance; specifically, in transport of T lymphocytes and antigen-presenting cells such as dendritic cells to the lymph nodes. This study aimed to produce epitopes of CCL21 and IL1β as a recombinant protein and characterize its in vitro anti-tumor and immunogenic activity. A codon-optimized ccl21/IL1β gene was designed and synthesized from human genes. Stability and binding affinity of CCL21/IL1β protein and CCR7 receptor were examined through in silico analyses. The construct was introduced into N. tabacum to produce this recombinant protein and the structure and function of CCL21/IL1β were examined. Purified protein from transgenic leaves generated a strong signal in SDS PAGE and western blotting assays. FTIR measurement and MALDI-TOF/TOF mass spectrography showed that ccl21/IL-1β was correctly expressed in tobacco plants. Potential activity of purified CCL21/IL1β in stimulating the proliferation and migration of MCF7 cancer cell line was investigated using the wound healing method. The results demonstrated a decrease in survival rate and metastasization of cancer cells in the presence of CCL21/IL1β, and IC50 of CCL21 on MCF7 cells was less than that of non-recombinant protein. Agarose assay on PBMCsCCR7+ showed that CCL21/IL1β has biological activity and there is a distinguishable difference between chemokinetic (CCL21) and chemotactic (FBS) movements. Overall, the results suggest that CCL21/IL1β could be considered an effective adjuvant in future in vivo and clinical tests."},"36058408":{"title":"Intranasal delivery of a synthetic Entamoeba histolytica vaccine containing adjuvant (LecA + GLA-3 M-052 liposomes): In vitro characterization.","abstract":"Amebiasis, a disease caused by the parasite Entamoeba histolytica, is estimated to cause millions of infections and at least 55,000 deaths globally each year. With no vaccine currently available, there is an urgent need for an accessible means of stimulating protective mucosal immunity. The objective of this study was to characterize the nasal spray of a novel amebiasis vaccine candidate from a syringe-based liquid atomization device, the Teleflex MAD Nasal™, in both adult and infant nasal airways. Human ergonomic testing was completed to determine realistic actuation parameters. Spray pattern, plume geometry, and droplet size distribution were measured to evaluate reproducibility of free plume characteristics. The Alberta Idealized Nasal Inlet (AINI) and three realistic infant nasal airways were used to determine the in vitro deposition profile in adult and infant airways, respectively. Collectively, in vitro results demonstrated the feasibility of delivering the vaccine candidate to target sites within the nasal airways. Penetration through the nasal airways that could lead to deposition in the lungs was below the limit of quantification for both adult and infant geometries, indicating a low likelihood of adverse events due to lung exposure. These results support continued investigation of intranasal delivery of the synthetic Entamoeba histolytica vaccine."},"36070369":{"title":"Stabilized HIV-1 envelope immunization induces neutralizing antibodies to the CD4bs and protects macaques against mucosal infection.","abstract":"A successful HIV-1 vaccine will require induction of a polyclonal neutralizing antibody (nAb) response, yet vaccine-mediated induction of such a response in primates remains a challenge. We found that a stabilized HIV-1 CH505 envelope (Env) trimer formulated with a Toll-like receptor 7/8 agonist induced potent HIV-1 polyclonal nAbs that correlated with protection from homologous simian-human immunodeficiency virus (SHIV) infection. The serum dilution that neutralized 50% of virus replication (ID50 titer) required to protect 90% of macaques was 1:364 against the challenge virus grown in primary rhesus CD4+ T cells. Structural analyses of vaccine-induced nAbs demonstrated targeting of the Env CD4 binding site or the N156 glycan and the third variable loop base. Autologous nAb specificities similar to those elicited in macaques by vaccination were isolated from the human living with HIV from which the CH505 Env immunogen was derived. CH505 viral isolates were isolated that mutated the V1 to escape both the infection-induced and vaccine-induced antibodies. These results define the specificities of a vaccine-induced nAb response and the protective titers of HIV-1 vaccine-induced nAbs required to protect nonhuman primates from low-dose mucosal challenge by SHIVs bearing a primary transmitted/founder Env."},"36090093":{"title":"Therapeutic efficacy against Mycobacterium tuberculosis using ID93 and liposomal adjuvant formulations.","abstract":"Mycobacterium tuberculosis (M.tb) has led to approximately 1.3 million deaths globally in 2020 according to the World Health Organization (WHO). More effective treatments are therefore required to prevent the transmission of M.tb. Although Bacille Calmette-Guérin (BCG), a prophylactic vaccine against M.tb, already exists, other vaccines are being developed that could help boost BCG's noted incomplete protection. This includes ID93 + GLA-SE, an adjuvanted protein vaccine which is being tested in Phase 2 clinical trials. The aim of this study was to test new lipid-based adjuvant formulations with ID93 in the context of a therapeutic vaccine, which we hypothesize would act as an adjunct to drug treatment and provide better outcomes, such as survival, than drug treatment alone. The recent success of another adjuvanted recombinant protein vaccine, M72 + AS01E (GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals), which after 3 years provided approximately 50% efficacy against TB pulmonary disease, is paving the way for new and potentially more effective vaccines. We show that based on selected criteria, including survival, T helper 1 cytokine responses, and resident memory T cells in the lung, that a liposomal formulation of GLA with QS-21 (GLA-LSQ) combined with ID93 provided enhanced protection over drug treatment alone."},"36096430":{"title":"Evaluating the efficacy and safety of SpikoGen®, an Advax-CpG55.2-adjuvanted severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 spike protein vaccine: a phase 3 randomized placebo-controlled trial.","abstract":"We sought to investigate the efficacy and safety of SpikoGen®, a subunit coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) vaccine composed of a recombinant severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 spike protein with Advax-CpG55.2™ adjuvant. This randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind, phase 3 trial was conducted on 16 876 participants randomized (3:1) to receive two intramuscular doses of SpikoGen® or a saline placebo 21 days apart. The primary outcome was to assess the efficacy of SpikoGen® in preventing symptomatic COVID-19. Secondary outcomes included safety assessments and evaluation of SpikoGen® vaccine's efficacy in preventing severe COVID-19. The study aimed for 147 COVID-19 symptomatic cases. Overall, 12 657 and 4219 participants were randomized to the SpikoGen® and placebo group and followed for a median of 55 days (interquartile range, 48-60 days) and 51 days (interquartile range, 46-58 days) after 14 days of the second dose, respectively. In the final per-protocol analysis, the number of COVID-19 cases was 247 of 9998 (2.4%) in the SpikoGen® group and 119 of 3069 (3.8%) in the placebo group. This equated to a vaccine efficacy of 43.99% (95% CI, 30.3-55.0%). The efficacy was calculated to be 44.22% (95% CI, 31.13-54.82%) among all participants who received both doses. From 2 weeks after the second dose, 5 of 9998 (0.05%) participants in the SpikoGen® group and 6 of 3069 (0.19%) participants in the placebo group developed severe COVID-19, equating to a vaccine efficacy against severe disease of 77.51% (95% CI, 26.3-93.1%). The SpikoGen® vaccine was well tolerated. A 2-dose regimen of SpikoGen® reduced the rate of COVID-19 and severe disease in the wave of the Delta variant."},"36100311":{"title":"In situ delivery of nanoparticles formulated with micron-sized crystals protects from murine melanoma.","abstract":"Intratumoral injections of novel therapeutics can activate tumor antigen-specific T cells for locoregional tumor control and may even induce durable systemic protection (against distant metastases) via recirculating T cells. Here we explored the possibility of a universal immunotherapy that promotes T-cell responses in situ and beyond, upon intratumoral injection of nanoparticles formulated with micron-sized crystals. Cucumber mosaic virus-like particles containing a tetanus toxin peptide (CuMVTT) were formulated with microcrystalline tyrosine (MCT) adjuvant and injected directly in B16F10 melanoma tumors. To further enhance immunogenicity, we loaded the nanoparticles with a TLR7/8 ligand and incorporated a universal tetanus toxin T-helper cell peptide. We assessed therapeutic efficacy and induction of local and systemic immune responses, including RNA sequencing, providing broad insight into the tumor microenvironment and correlates of protection. MCT crystals were successfully decorated with CuMVTT nanoparticles. This 'immune-enhancer' formed immunogenic depots in injected tumors, enhanced polyfunctional CD8+ and CD4+ T cells, and inhibited B16F10 tumor growth locally and systemically. Local inflammation and immune responses were associated with upregulation of genes involved in complement activation and collagen formation. Our new immune-enhancer turned immunologically cold tumors into hot ones and inhibited local and distant tumor growth. This type of immunotherapy does not require the identification of (patient-individual) relevant tumor antigens. It is well tolerated, non-infectious, and affordable, and can readily be upscaled for future clinical testing and broad application in melanoma and likely other solid tumors."},"36114129":{"title":"Safety and immunogenicity of the Na-APR-1 hookworm vaccine in infection-naïve adults.","abstract":"The Necator americanus hemoglobinase, aspartic protease-1 (Na-APR-1), facilitates the ability of adult hookworms to parasitize the intestine of their human hosts. A recombinant version of APR-1 protected laboratory animals against hookworm infection by inducing neutralizing antibodies that block the protein's enzymatic activity and thereby impair blood feeding. A catalytically inactive version of the wild-type hemoglobinase (Na-APR-1(M74)) was expressed by infiltrating Nicotiana benthamiana tobacco plants with an Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain engineered to express the vaccine antigen, which was adjuvanted with aluminum hydroxide adjuvant (Alhydrogel). An open-label dose-escalation Phase 1 clinical trial was conducted in 40 healthy, hookworm-naïve adult volunteers in the United States. Participants received 30 or 100 µg of recombinant Na-APR-1(M74) with Alhydrogel or with Alhydrogel co-administered with one of two doses (2.5 or 5.0 µg) of an aqueous formulation of Glucopyranosyl Lipid A (GLA-AF). Intramuscular injections of study vaccine were administered on days 0, 56, and 112. Na-APR-1(M74)/Alhydrogel was well-tolerated; the most frequent adverse events were mild or moderate injection site tenderness and pain, and mild or moderate nausea and headache. No serious adverse events or adverse events of special interest related to vaccination were observed. Significantly higher levels of antigen-specific IgG antibodies were induced in those who received 100 µg Na-APR-1(M74) than those who received 30 µg of antigen. Adding GLA-AF to Na-APR-1(M74)/Alhydrogel resulted in higher levels of IgG against Na-APR-1(M74) in both the 30 and 100 µg Na-APR-1(M74) groups in comparison to the non-GLA formulations at the same antigen dose. Vaccination of hookworm-naïve adults with recombinant Na-APR-1(M74) was well-tolerated, safe, and induced significant IgG responses against the vaccine antigen Na-APR-1(M74). Given these favorable results, clinical trials of this product were initiated in hookworm-endemic areas of Gabon and Brazil."},"36119026":{"title":"The Th1/Tfh-like biased responses elicited by the rASP-1 innate adjuvant are dependent on TRIF and Type I IFN receptor pathways.","abstract":"Ov-ASP-1 (rASP-1), a parasite-derived protein secreted by the helminth Onchocerca volvulus, is an adjuvant which enhances the potency of the influenza trivalent vaccine (IIV3), even when used with 40-fold less IIV3. This study is aimed to provide a deeper insight into the molecular networks that underline the adjuvanticity of rASP-1. Here we show that rASP-1 stimulates mouse CD11c+ bone marrow-derived dendritic (BMDCs) to secrete elevated levels of IL-12p40, TNF-α, IP-10 and IFN-β in a TRIF-dependent but MyD88-independent manner. rASP-1-activated BMDCs promoted the differentiation of naïve CD4+ T cells into Th1 cells (IFN-γ+) that was TRIF- and type I interferon receptor (IFNAR)-dependent, and into Tfh-like cells (IL21+) and Tfh1 (IFN-γ+ IL21+) that were TRIF-, MyD88- and IFNAR-dependent. rASP-1-activated BMDCs promoted the differentiation of naïve CD4+ T cells into Th17 (IL-17+) cells only when the MyD88 pathway was inhibited. Importantly, rASP-1-activated human blood cDCs expressed upregulated genes that are associated with DC maturation, type I IFN and type II IFN signaling, as well as TLR4-TRIF dependent signaling. These activated cDCs promoted the differentiation of naïve human CD4+ T cells into Th1, Tfh-like and Th17 cells. Our data thus confirms that the rASP-1 is a potent innate adjuvant that polarizes the adaptive T cell responses to Th1/Tfh1 in both mouse and human DCs. Notably, the rASP-1-adjuvanted IIV3 vaccine elicited protection of mice from a lethal H1N1 infection that is also dependent on the TLR4-TRIF axis and IFNAR signaling pathway, as well as on its ability to induce anti-IIV3 antibody production."},"36119058":{"title":"Characterization and comparison of novel adjuvants for a prefusion clamped MERS vaccine.","abstract":"Various chemical adjuvants are available to augment immune responses to non-replicative, subunit vaccines. Optimized adjuvant selection can ensure that vaccine-induced immune responses protect against the diversity of pathogen-associated infection routes, mechanisms of infectious spread, and pathways of immune evasion. In this study, we compare the immune response of mice to a subunit vaccine of Middle Eastern respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV) spike protein, stabilized in its prefusion conformation by a proprietary molecular clamp (MERS SClamp) alone or formulated with one of six adjuvants: either (i) aluminium hydroxide, (ii) SWE, a squalene-in-water emulsion, (iii) SQ, a squalene-in-water emulsion containing QS21 saponin, (iv) SMQ, a squalene-in-water emulsion containing QS21 and a synthetic toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) agonist 3D-6-acyl Phosphorylated HexaAcyl Disaccharide (3D6AP); (v) LQ, neutral liposomes containing cholesterol, 1.2-dioleoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine (DOPC) and QS21, (vi) or LMQ, neutral liposomes containing cholesterol, DOPC, QS21, and 3D6AP. All adjuvanted formulations induced elevated antibody titers which where greatest for QS21-containing formulations. These had elevated neutralization capacity and induced higher frequencies of IFNƔ and IL-2-producing CD4+ and CD8+ T cells. Additionally, LMQ-containing formulations skewed the antibody response towards IgG2b/c isotypes, allowing for antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity. This study highlights the utility of side-by-side adjuvant comparisons in vaccine development."},"36146461":{"title":"Adjuvant Effects of a New Saponin Analog VSA-1 on Enhancing Homologous and Heterosubtypic Protection by Influenza Virus Vaccination.","abstract":"Adjuvants can increase the magnitude and durability of the immune response generated by the vaccine antigen. Aluminum salts (Alum) remain the main adjuvant licensed for human use. A few new adjuvants have been licensed for use in human vaccines since the 1990s. QS-21, a mixture of saponin compounds, was included in the AS01-adjuvanted Shingrix vaccine. Here, we investigated the adjuvant effects of VSA-1, a newly developed semisynthetic analog of QS-21, on promoting protection in mice after vaccination with the inactivated split virus vaccine. The adjuvant effects of VSA-1 on improving vaccine efficacy after prime immunization were evident as shown by significantly higher levels of hemagglutination-inhibiting antibody titers and enhanced homologous protection compared to those by QS-21 and Alum adjuvants. The adjuvant effects of VSA-1 on enhancing heterosubtypic protection after two doses of adjuvanted vaccination were comparable to those of QS-21. T cell immunity played an important role in conferring cross-protection by VSA-1-adjuvanted vaccination. Overall, the findings in this study suggest that VSA-1 exhibits desirable adjuvant properties and a unique pattern of innate and adaptive immune responses, contributing to improved homologous and heterosubtypic protection by inactivated split influenza vaccination in mice."},"36155987":{"title":"Investigation of urinary metabolomics in a phase I hookworm vaccine trial in Gabon.","abstract":"Metabolomics provides a powerful tool to study physiological changes in response to various perturbations such as vaccination. We explored whether metabolomic changes could be seen after vaccination in a phase I trial where Gabonese adults living either in rural or semi-urban areas received the subunit hookworm vaccine candidates (Na-GST-1 and Na-APR-1 (M74) adjuvanted with Alhydrogel plus GLA-AF (n = 24) or the hepatitis B vaccine (n = 8) as control. Urine samples were collected and assayed using targeted 1H NMR spectroscopy. At baseline, a set of metabolites significantly distinguished rural from semi-urban individuals. The pre- and post-vaccination comparisons indicated significant changes in few metabolites but only one day after the first vaccination. There was no relationship with immunogenicity. In conclusion, in a small phase 1 trial, urinary metabolomics could distinguish volunteers with different environmental exposures and reflected the safety of the vaccines but did not show a relationship to immunogenicity."},"36182824":{"title":"Accelerating model-informed decisions for COVID-19 vaccine candidates using a model-based meta-analysis approach.","abstract":"The COVID-19 pandemic has increased the need for innovative quantitative decision tools to support rapid development of safe and efficacious vaccines against SARS-CoV-2. To meet that need, we developed and applied a model-based meta-analysis (MBMA) approach integrating non-clinical and clinical immunogenicity and protection data. A systematic literature review identified studies of vaccines against SARS-CoV-2 in rhesus macaques (RM) and humans. Summary-level data of 13 RM and 8 clinical trials were used in the analysis. A RM MBMA model was developed to quantify the relationship between serum neutralizing (SN) titres after vaccination and peak viral load (VL) post-challenge in RM. The translation of the RM MBMA model to a clinical protection model was then carried out to predict clinical efficacies based on RM data alone. Subsequently, clinical SN and efficacy data were integrated to develop three predictive models of efficacy - a calibrated RM MBMA, a joint (RM-Clinical) MBMA, and the clinical MBMA model. The three models were leveraged to predict efficacies of vaccine candidates not included in the model and efficacies against newer strains of SARS-CoV-2. Clinical efficacies predicted based on RM data alone were in reasonable agreement with the reported data. The SN titre predicted to provide 50% efficacy was estimated to be about 21% of the mean human convalescent titre level, and that value was consistent across the three models. Clinical efficacies predicted from the MBMA models agreed with reported efficacies for two vaccine candidates (BBV152 and CoronaVac) not included in the modelling and for efficacies against delta variant. The three MBMA models are predictive of protection against SARS-CoV-2 and provide a translational framework to enable early Go/No-Go and study design decisions using non-clinical and/or limited clinical immunogenicity data in the development of novel SARS-CoV-2 vaccines. This study was funded by Merck Sharp & Dohme LLC, a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc., Rahway, NJ, USA."},"36227735":{"title":"Nonclinical safety evaluation of two vaccine candidates for herpes simplex virus type 2 to support combined administration in humans.","abstract":"Herpes simplex virus type 2 (HSV-2) is the most common cause of genital disease worldwide. The development of an effective HSV-2 vaccine would significantly impact global health based on the psychological distress caused by genital herpes for some individuals, the risk transmitting the infection from mother to infant, and the elevated risk of acquiring HIV-1. Five nonclinical safety studies were conducted with the replication defective HSV529 vaccine, alone or adjuvanted with GLA-SE, and the G103 subunit vaccine containing GLA-SE. A biodistribution study was conducted in guinea pigs to evaluate distribution, persistence, and shedding of HSV529. A preliminary immunogenicity study was conducted in rabbits to demonstrate HSV529-specific humoral response and its enhancement by GLA-SE. Three repeated-dose toxicity studies, one in guinea pigs and two in rabbits, were conducted to assess systemic toxicity and local tolerance of HSV529, alone or adjuvanted with GLA-SE, or G103 containing GLA-SE. Data from these studies show that both vaccines are safe and well tolerated and support the ongoing HSV-2 clinical trial in which the two vaccine candidates will be given either sequentially or concomitantly to explore their potential synergistic and incremental effects."},"36274085":{"title":"Breadth of SARS-CoV-2 neutralization and protection induced by a nanoparticle vaccine.","abstract":"Coronavirus vaccines that are highly effective against current and anticipated SARS-CoV-2 variants are needed to control COVID-19. We previously reported a receptor-binding domain (RBD)-sortase A-conjugated ferritin nanoparticle (scNP) vaccine that induced neutralizing antibodies against SARS-CoV-2 and pre-emergent sarbecoviruses and protected non-human primates (NHPs) from SARS-CoV-2 WA-1 infection. Here, we find the RBD-scNP induced neutralizing antibodies in NHPs against pseudoviruses of SARS-CoV and SARS-CoV-2 variants including 614G, Beta, Delta, Omicron BA.1, BA.2, BA.2.12.1, and BA.4/BA.5, and a designed variant with escape mutations, PMS20. Adjuvant studies demonstrate variant neutralization titers are highest with 3M-052-aqueous formulation (AF). Immunization twice with RBD-scNPs protect NHPs from SARS-CoV-2 WA-1, Beta, and Delta variant challenge, and protect mice from challenges of SARS-CoV-2 Beta variant and two other heterologous sarbecoviruses. These results demonstrate the ability of RBD-scNPs to induce broad neutralization of SARS-CoV-2 variants and to protect animals from multiple different SARS-related viruses. Such a vaccine could provide broad immunity to SARS-CoV-2 variants."},"36298559":{"title":"A Dual Adjuvant System for Intranasal Boosting of Local and Systemic Immunity for Influenza Vaccination.","abstract":"Systemically vaccinated individuals against COVID-19 and influenza may continue to support viral replication and shedding in the upper airways, contributing to the spread of infections. Thus, a vaccine regimen that enhances mucosal immunity in the respiratory mucosa is needed to prevent a pandemic. Intranasal/pulmonary (IN) vaccines can promote mucosal immunity by promoting IgA secretion at the infection site. Here, we demonstrate that an intramuscular (IM) priming-IN boosting regimen with an inactivated influenza A virus adjuvanted with the liposomal dual TLR4/7 adjuvant (Fos47) enhances systemic and local/mucosal immunity. The IN boosting with Fos47 (IN-Fos47) enhanced antigen-specific IgA secretion in the upper and lower respiratory tracts compared to the IM boosting with Fos47 (IM-Fos47). The secreted IgA induced by IN-Fos47 was also cross-reactive to multiple influenza virus strains. Antigen-specific tissue-resident memory T cells in the lung were increased after IN boosting with Fos47, indicating that IN-Fos47 established tissue-resident T cells. Furthermore, IN-Fos47 induced systemic cross-reactive IgG antibody titers comparable to those of IM-Fos47. Neither local nor systemic reactogenicity or adverse effects were observed after IN delivery of Fos47. Collectively, these results indicate that the IM/IN regimen with Fos47 is safe and provides both local and systemic anti-influenza immune responses."},"36298589":{"title":"Development of the Sm14/GLA-SE Schistosomiasis Vaccine Candidate: An Open, Non-Placebo-Controlled, Standardized-Dose Immunization Phase Ib Clinical Trial Targeting Healthy Young Women.","abstract":"We report the successful closure of Phase I clinical trials, comprising Phases Ia and Ib, of the vaccine candidate against human schistosomiasis: the Schistosoma mansoni 14 kDa fatty acid-binding protein (Sm14) + glucopyranosyl lipid A in squalene emulsion (GLA-SE). Shown here are the results of Phase Ib, an open, non-placebo-controlled, standardized-dose immunization trial involving 10 healthy 18-49-year-old women. Fifty micrograms of the Sm14 protein plus 10 µg GLA-SE per dose was given intramuscularly thrice at 30-day intervals. Participants were assessed clinically, biochemically, and immunologically for up to 120 days. In preambular experiments involving vaccinated pregnant female rabbits, we did not find any toxicological features in either the offspring or mothers, and the vaccine induced adaptive immunity in the animals. In women, no adverse events were observed, and vaccination induced high titers of anti-Sm14 serum IgG antibody production. Vaccination also elicited robust cytokine responses, with increased TNFα, IFNγ, and IL-2 profiles in all vaccinees on days 90 and 120. The completion of Phase I clinical trials, which were performed to the highest standards set by Good Clinical Research Practice (GCP) standards, and preclinical data in pregnant rabbits enabled the vaccine candidate to proceed to Phase II clinical trials in endemic areas."},"36318612":{"title":"Structure-Activity Relationship Study of Momordica Saponin II Derivatives as Vaccine Adjuvants.","abstract":"VSA-2 is a recently developed semisynthetic saponin immunostimulant. It is prepared by incorporating a terminal-functionalized side chain to the branched trisaccharide domain at the C3 position of Momordica saponin II (MS II) isolated from the seeds of perennial Momordica cochinchinensis Spreng. Direct comparison of VSA-2 and the clinically proven saponin adjuvant QS-21 shows that VSA-2 is comparable to QS-21 in enhancing humoral and cellular immune responses. Structure-activity relationship studies show that structural changes in the side chain have a significant impact on saponins' adjuvant activity. However, with the VSA-2 molecular framework intact, the new VSA-2 analogues with various substitution(s) at the terminal benzyl group of the side chain retain the ability of potentiating antigen-specific humoral and cellular responses."},"36323666":{"title":"A self-amplifying RNA vaccine against COVID-19 with long-term room-temperature stability.","abstract":"mRNA vaccines were the first to be authorized for use against SARS-CoV-2 and have since demonstrated high efficacy against serious illness and death. However, limitations in these vaccines have been recognized due to their requirement for cold storage, short durability of protection, and lack of access in low-resource regions. We have developed an easily-manufactured, potent self-amplifying RNA (saRNA) vaccine against SARS-CoV-2 that is stable at room temperature. This saRNA vaccine is formulated with a nanostructured lipid carrier (NLC), providing stability, ease of manufacturing, and protection against degradation. In preclinical studies, this saRNA/NLC vaccine induced strong humoral immunity, as demonstrated by high pseudovirus neutralization titers to the Alpha, Beta, and Delta variants of concern and induction of bone marrow-resident antibody-secreting cells. Robust Th1-biased T-cell responses were also observed after prime or homologous prime-boost in mice. Notably, the saRNA/NLC platform demonstrated thermostability when stored lyophilized at room temperature for at least 6 months and at refrigerated temperatures for at least 10 months. Taken together, this saRNA delivered by NLC represents a potential improvement in RNA technology that could allow wider access to RNA vaccines for the current COVID-19 and future pandemics."},"36333225":{"title":"Non-standard viral genome-derived RNA activates TLR3 and type I IFN signaling to induce cDC1-dependent CD8+ T-cell responses during vaccination in mice.","abstract":"There is a critical need to develop vaccine adjuvants that induce robust immune responses able to protect against intracellular pathogens, including viruses. Previously, we described defective viral genome-derived oligonucleotides (DDOs) as novel adjuvants that strongly induce type 1 immune responses, including protective Th1 CD4+ T-cells and effector CD8+ T-cells in mice. Here, we unravel the early innate response required for this type 1 immunity induction. Upon DDO subcutaneous injection, type 1 conventional dendritic cells (cDC1s) accumulate rapidly in the draining lymph node in a Toll-like receptor 3 (TLR3)- and type I interferon (IFN)-dependent manner. cDC1 accumulation in the lymph node is required for antigen-specific CD8+ T-cell responses. Notably, in contrast to poly I:C, DDO administration resulted in type I IFN expression at the injection site, but not in the draining lymph node. Additionally, DDOs induced an inflammatory cytokine profile distinct from that induced by poly I:C. Therefore, DDOs represent a powerful new adjuvant to be used during vaccination against intracellular pathogens."},"36365109":{"title":"An Immunconjugate Vaccine Alters Distribution and Reduces the Antinociceptive, Behavioral and Physiological Effects of Fentanyl in Male and Female Rats.","abstract":"Fentanyl (FEN) is a potent synthetic opioid associated with increasing incidence of opioid use disorder (OUD) and fatal opioid overdose. Vaccine immunotherapy for FEN-associated disorders may be a viable therapeutic strategy. Here, we expand and confirm our previous study in mice showing immunological and antinociception efficacy of our FEN vaccine administered with the adjuvant dmLT. In this study, immunized male and female rats produced significant levels of anti-FEN antibodies that were highly effective at neutralizing FEN-induced antinociception in the tail flick assay and hot plate assays. The vaccine also decreased FEN brain levels following drug administration. Immunization blocked FEN-induced, but not morphine-induced, rate-disrupting effects on schedule-controlled responding. Vaccination prevented decreases on physiological measures (oxygen saturation, heart rate) and reduction in overall activity following FEN administration in male rats. The impact of FEN on these measures was greater in unvaccinated male rats compared to unvaccinated female rats. Cross-reactivity assays showed anti-FEN antibodies bound to FEN and sufentanil but not to morphine, methadone, buprenorphine, or oxycodone. These data support further clinical development of this vaccine to address OUD in humans."},"36371365":{"title":"Chitosan-functionalized graphene oxide as adjuvant in HEV P239 vaccine.","abstract":"Searching appropriate adjuvants for vaccine is a potent method to intense the immune efficacy. In the present study, we developed a novel Hepatitis E virus (HEV) vaccine by utilizing chitosan modified nano-graphene oxide (GO-CS) as an adjuvant to support HEV antigen P239 protein (GO/CS/P239). The characterization of GO/CS/P239 was observed by atomic force microscope. The safety of GO/CS/P239 was measured by CCK-8 method, hemolysis test and acute challenge test. The anti-HEV titers and cytokines production were analyzed by double antibody sandwich ELISA. As the results showed, by contrast with a vaccine that contained only the P239 protein, GO/CS/P239 vaccine can promote immune cells to produce more IgG antibodies and cytokines, which were able to stimulate the organism to produce stronger both cellular and humoral immunity. Collectively, GO/CS/P239 particles have been demonstrated to be safe both in vitro and in vivo, and can facilitate sufficient immune response to protect organisms from virus infection, which suggested that our exploration offers a promising alternative vaccine that can control HEV infection."},"36389677":{"title":"A novel asexual blood-stage malaria vaccine candidate: PfRipr5 formulated with human-use adjuvants induces potent growth inhibitory antibodies.","abstract":"PfRipr is a highly conserved asexual-blood stage malaria vaccine candidate against Plasmodium falciparum. PfRipr5, a protein fragment of PfRipr inducing the most potent inhibitory antibodies, is a promising candidate for the development of next-generation malaria vaccines, requiring validation of its potential when formulated with adjuvants already approved for human use. In this study, PfRipr5 antigen was efficiently produced in a tank bioreactor using insect High Five cells and the baculovirus expression vector system; purified PfRipr5 was thermally stable in its monomeric form, had high purity and binding capacity to functional monoclonal anti-PfRipr antibody. The formulation of purified PfRipr5 with Alhydrogel®, GLA-SE or CAF®01 adjuvants accepted for human use showed acceptable compatibility. Rabbits immunized with these formulations induced comparable levels of anti-PfRipr5 antibodies, and significantly higher than the control group immunized with PfRipr5 alone. To investigate the efficacy of the antibodies, we used an in vitro parasite growth inhibition assay (GIA). The highest average GIA activity amongst all groups was attained with antibodies induced by immunization with PfRipr5 formulated with CAF®01. Overall, this study validates the potential of adjuvanted PfRipr5 as an asexual blood-stage malaria vaccine candidate, with PfRipr5/CAF®01 being a promising formulation for subsequent pre-clinical and clinical development."},"36420215":{"title":"cGAMP-adjuvanted multivalent influenza mRNA vaccines induce broadly protective immunity through cutaneous vaccination in mice.","abstract":"Increasing preclinical and clinical results have demonstrated that mRNA vaccines efficiently prevent infectious diseases and are safe in animal models and humans. In this study, we fabricated a multivalent influenza mRNA lipid nanoparticle (LNP) vaccine with mRNAs of hemagglutinins from influenza H1N1 and H3N2 viruses, matrix protein 1, and nucleoprotein. We found that cutaneous immunization with mRNA LNPs induced strong Th1 and Th2 cellular immunity with robust antigen-specific antibody titers and increased cytokine-secreting splenocytes and antibody-secreting cells. The supplement of cGAMP improved the immunogenicity of mRNA LNPs. Compared with αGC or cGAMP/αGC adjuvanted mRNA LNP formulations in our study, cGAMP mRNA LNPs induced more robust antibody responses. Enhanced cellular immunity with more IL-4 and IFN-γ secreting cells and effector memory T cell populations in spleens, as well as increased CD4+ resident memory (TRM) T cells in lungs were observed in cGAMP mRNA LNPs immunized group. These results demonstrated that cGAMP is an effective adjuvant for cutaneous vaccination of multivalent mRNA LNP vaccines in mice to induce stronger immune responses in the spleen and lung, and the cGAMP-adjuvanted mRNA LNPs protected against homologous and heterologous viral infection."},"36454813":{"title":"Infant rhesus macaques immunized against SARS-CoV-2 are protected against heterologous virus challenge 1 year later.","abstract":"The U.S. Food and Drug Administration only gave emergency use authorization of the BNT162b2 and mRNA-1273 SARS-CoV-2 vaccines for infants 6 months and older in June 2022. Yet questions regarding the durability of vaccine efficacy, especially against emerging variants, in this age group remain. We demonstrated previously that a two-dose regimen of stabilized prefusion Washington SARS-CoV-2 S-2P spike (S) protein encoded by mRNA encapsulated in lipid nanoparticles (mRNA-LNP) or purified S-2P mixed with 3M-052, a synthetic Toll-like receptor (TLR) 7/8 agonist, in a squalene emulsion (Protein+3M-052-SE) was safe and immunogenic in infant rhesus macaques. Here, we demonstrate that broadly neutralizing and spike-binding antibodies against variants of concern (VOCs), as well as T cell responses, persisted for 12 months. At 1 year, corresponding to human toddler age, we challenged vaccinated rhesus macaques and age-matched nonvaccinated controls intranasally and intratracheally with a high dose of heterologous SARS-CoV-2 B.1.617.2 (Delta). Seven of eight control rhesus macaques exhibited severe interstitial pneumonia and high virus replication in the upper and lower respiratory tract. In contrast, vaccinated rhesus macaques had faster viral clearance with mild to no pneumonia. Neutralizing and binding antibody responses to the B.1.617.2 variant at the day of challenge correlated with lung pathology and reduced virus replication. Overall, the Protein+3M-052-SE vaccine provided superior protection to the mRNA-LNP vaccine, emphasizing opportunities for optimization of current vaccine platforms. The observed efficacy of both vaccines 1 year after vaccination supports the implementation of an early-life SARS-CoV-2 vaccine."},"36578488":{"title":"Potentiating pneumococcal glycoconjugate vaccine PCV13 with saponin adjuvant VSA-1.","abstract":"VSA-1 is a semisynthetic saponin adjuvant prepared from naturally occurring Momordica saponin and capable of stimulating antigen-specific humoral and cellular immune responses. Its immunostimulating activity in enhancing the immune responses induced by the clinical glycoconjugate pneumococcal vaccine PCV13 is compared with QS-21 in female BALB/c mice. Both VSA-1 and QS-21 boosted IgG and opsonic antibodies titers against seven selected serotypes, including serotypes 3, 14, and 19A that are involved in most PCV13 breakthroughs. Since VSA-1 is much more accessible and of lower toxicity than QS-21, it can be a practical saponin immunostimulant to be included in a new glycoconjugate pneumococcal vaccine formulation."},"36586154":{"title":"Immunogenicity and protection against Mycobacterium avium with a heterologous RNA prime and protein boost vaccine regimen.","abstract":"Prophylactic efficacy of two different delivery platforms for vaccination against Mycobacterium avium (M. avium) were tested in this study; a subunit and an RNA-based vaccine. The vaccine antigen, ID91, includes four mycobacterial antigens: Rv3619, Rv2389, Rv3478, and Rv1886. We have shown that ID91+GLA-SE is effective against a clinical NTM isolate, M. avium 2-151 smt. Here, we extend these results and show that a heterologous prime/boost strategy with a repRNA-ID91 (replicon RNA) followed by protein ID91+GLA-SE boost is superior to the subunit protein vaccine given as a homologous prime/boost regimen. The repRNA-ID91/ID91+GLA-SE heterologous regimen elicited a higher polyfunctional CD4+ TH1 immune response when compared to the homologous protein prime/boost regimen. More significantly, among all the vaccine regimens tested only repRNA-ID91/ID91+GLA-SE induced IFN-γ and TNF-secreting CD8+ T cells. Furthermore, the repRNA-ID91/ID91+GLA-SE vaccine strategy elicited high systemic proinflammatory cytokine responses and induced strong ID91 and an Ag85B-specific humoral antibody response a pre- and post-challenge with M. avium 2-151 smt. Finally, while all prophylactic prime/boost vaccine regimens elicited a degree of protection in beige mice, the heterologous repRNA-ID91/ID91+GLA-SE vaccine regimen provided greater pulmonary protection than the homologous protein prime/boost regimen. These data indicate that a prophylactic heterologous repRNA-ID91/ID91+GLA-SE vaccine regimen augments immunogenicity and confers protection against M. avium."},"36589712":{"title":"Formulation, inflammation, and RNA sensing impact the immunogenicity of self-amplifying RNA vaccines.","abstract":"To be effective, RNA vaccines require both in situ translation and the induction of an immune response to recruit cells to the site of immunization. These factors can pull in opposite directions with the inflammation reducing expression of the vaccine antigen. We investigated how formulation affects the acute systemic cytokine response to a self-amplifying RNA (saRNA) vaccine. We compared a cationic polymer (pABOL), a lipid emulsion (nanostructured lipid carrier, NLC), and three lipid nanoparticles (LNP). After immunization, we measured serum cytokines and compared the response to induced antibodies against influenza virus. Formulations that induced a greater cytokine response induced a greater antibody response, with a significant correlation between IP-10, MCP-1, KC, and antigen-specific antibody titers. We then investigated how innate immune sensing and signaling impacted the adaptive immune response to vaccination with LNP-formulated saRNA. Mice that lacked MAVS and are unable to signal through RIG-I-like receptors had an altered cytokine response to saRNA vaccination and had significantly greater antibody responses than wild-type mice. This indicates that the inflammation induced by formulated saRNA vaccines is not solely deleterious in the induction of antibody responses and that targeting specific aspects of RNA vaccine sensing might improve the quality of the response."},"36634821":{"title":"Activation of CD4 T cells during prime immunization determines the success of a therapeutic hepatitis B vaccine in HBV-carrier mouse models.","abstract":"We recently developed a heterologous therapeutic vaccination scheme (TherVacB) comprising a particulate protein prime followed by a modified vaccinia-virus Ankara (MVA)-vector boost for the treatment of HBV. However, the key determinants required to overcome HBV-specific immune tolerance remain unclear. Herein, we aimed to study new combination adjuvants and unravel factors that are essential for the antiviral efficacy of TherVacB. Recombinant hepatitis B surface and core antigen (HBsAg and HBcAg) particles were formulated with different liposome- or oil-in-water emulsion-based combination adjuvants containing saponin QS21 and monophosphoryl lipid A; these formulations were compared to STING-agonist c-di-AMP and conventional aluminium hydroxide formulations. Immunogenicity and the antiviral effects of protein antigen formulations and the MVA-vector boost within TherVacB were evaluated in adeno-associated virus-HBV-infected and HBV-transgenic mice. Combination adjuvant formulations preserved HBsAg and HBcAg integrity for ≥12 weeks, promoted human and mouse dendritic cell activation and, within TherVacB, elicited robust HBV-specific antibody and T-cell responses in wild-type and HBV-carrier mice. Combination adjuvants that prime a balanced HBV-specific type 1 and 2 T helper response induced high-titer anti-HBs antibodies, cytotoxic T-cell responses and long-term control of HBV. In the absence of an MVA-vector boost or following selective CD8 T-cell depletion, HBsAg still declined (mediated mainly by anti-HBs antibodies) but HBV replication was not controlled. Selective CD4 T-cell depletion during the priming phase of TherVacB resulted in a complete loss of vaccine-induced immune responses and its therapeutic antiviral effect in mice. Our results identify CD4 T-cell activation during the priming phase of TherVacB as a key determinant of HBV-specific antibody and CD8 T-cell responses. Therapeutic vaccination is a potentially curative treatment option for chronic hepatitis B. However, it remains unclear which factors are essential for breaking immune tolerance in HBV carriers and determining successful outcomes. Our study provides the first direct evidence that efficient priming of HBV-specific CD4 T cells determines the success of therapeutic hepatitis B vaccination in two preclinical HBV-carrier mouse models. Applying an optimal formulation of HBV antigens that activates CD4 and CD8 T cells during prime immunization provided the foundation for an antiviral effect of therapeutic vaccination, while depletion of CD4 T cells led to a complete loss of vaccine-induced antiviral efficacy. Boosting CD8 T cells was important to finally control HBV in these mouse models. Our findings provide important insights into the rational design of therapeutic vaccines for the cure of chronic hepatitis B."},"36635335":{"title":"A nanoadjuvant that dynamically coordinates innate immune stimuli activation enhances cancer immunotherapy and reduces immune cell exhaustion.","abstract":"Although conventional innate immune stimuli contribute to immune activation, they induce exhausted immune cells, resulting in suboptimal cancer immunotherapy. Here we suggest a kinetically activating nanoadjuvant (K-nanoadjuvant) that can dynamically integrate two waves of innate immune stimuli, resulting in effective antitumour immunity without immune cell exhaustion. The combinatorial code of K-nanoadjuvant is optimized in terms of the order, duration and time window between spatiotemporally activating Toll-like receptor 7/8 agonist and other Toll-like receptor agonists. K-nanoadjuvant induces effector/non-exhausted dendritic cells that programme the magnitude and persistence of interleukin-12 secretion, generate effector/non-exhausted CD8+ T cells, and activate natural killer cells. Treatment with K-nanoadjuvant as a monotherapy or in combination therapy with anti-PD-L1 or liposomes (doxorubicin) results in strong antitumour immunity in murine models, with minimal systemic toxicity, providing a strategy for synchronous and dynamic tailoring of innate immunity for enhanced cancer immunotherapy."},"36639569":{"title":"Enhancing the protection of influenza virus vaccines with BECC TLR4 adjuvant in aged mice.","abstract":"Influenza A virus (IAV) is a leading cause of respiratory disease worldwide often resulting in severe morbidity and mortality. We have previously shown that the Bacterial Enzymatic Combinatorial Chemistry (BECC) adjuvants, BECC438 and BECC470, formulated with an influenza virus hemagglutinin (HA) protein vaccine, offer greater protection from influenza virus challenge in mouse respiratory models using adult mice than standard HA:adjuvant combinations. In this study, we determined that immunization with HA + BECC adjuvants also significantly broadened the epitopes targeted on HA as compared with other adjuvants, resulting in increased titers of antibodies directed against the highly conserved HA stalk domain. Importantly, we demonstrate that BECC470 combined with an influenza virus HA protein antigen in a prime-only immunization regimen was able to achieve complete protection from challenge in a ~ 12-month-old mouse aged model. Together, this demonstrates the heightened protection provided by the BECC470 adjuvant in an influenza virus vaccine model and shows the enhanced immune response, as compared to other adjuvants elicited by the formulation of HA with BECC470."},"36658043":{"title":"The natural history of COVID-19 in vaccinated inflammatory bowel disease patients.","abstract":"Assess the characteristics of break through COVID-19 in Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD) patients, despite complete vaccination. Patients who reported a COVID-19 at least 3 weeks after complete vaccination were asked to answer an on-line anonymous questionnaire which included patient and disease characteristics, vaccination history, and the evolution of COVID-19. Among 3240 IBD patients who reported complete vaccination between 1st May 2021 and 30thJune 2022, 402 (12.4%) were infected by SARS Cov-2 [223 male, 216 Crohn's disease (CD), 186 Ulcerative Colitis (UC), mean (SD) age 42.3 (14.9) years, mean (SD) IBD duration 10.1 (9.7) years]. Three hundred and sixty-nine patients (91.8%) were infected once and 33 (8.2%) twice. The mean (SD) time between last vaccination and infection was 4.1 (1.6) months. Overall, 351 (87.3%) patients reported mild constitutional and/or respiratory symptoms, 34 (8.4%) were asymptomatic and only 17 patients (4.2%) required hospitalization. Of hospitalized patients, 2 UC patients died of COVID-19 pneumonia. The remaining hospitalized patients did not need high flow oxygen supply or ICU admission. A minority of completely vaccinated IBD patients developed COVID-19 which evolved with mild symptoms and a favorable outcome. These results reinforce the importance of vaccination especially in vulnerable populations."},"36731641":{"title":"Delivery of small molecule mast cell activators for West Nile Virus vaccination using acetalated dextran microparticles.","abstract":"Recently, there has been increasing interest in the activation of mast cells to promote vaccine efficacy. Several mast cell activating (MCA) compounds have been reported such as M7 and Compound 48/80 (C48/80). While these MCAs have been proven to be efficacious vaccine adjuvants, their translatability is limited by batch-to-batch variability, challenging large-scale manufacturing, and poor in vivo stability for the M7 peptide. Due to this, high throughput screening was performed to identify small molecule MCAs. Several potent MCAs were identified via this screening, but the in vivo translatability of the compounds was limited due to their poor aqueous solubility. To enhance the delivery of these MCAs we encapsulated them in acetalated dextran (Ace-DEX) microparticles (MPs). We have previously utilized Ace-DEX MPs for vaccine delivery due to their passive targeting to phagocytic cells, acid sensitivity, and tunable degradation. Four different MCA loaded MPs were combined with West Nile Virus Envelope III protein (EDIII) and their vaccine adjuvant activities were compared in vivo. MPs containing the small molecule MCA ST101036 produced the highest anti-EDIII IgG titers of all the MCAs tested. Further, ST101036 MPs produced higher titers than ST101036 formulated with PEG as a cosolvent which highlights the benefit of Ace-DEX MPs over a conventional formulation technique. Finally, in a mouse model of West Nile Virus infection ST101036 MPs produced similar survival to soluble M7 (80-90%). Overall, these data show that ST101036 MPs produce a robust antibody response against EDIII and survival emphasizing the benefits of using Ace-DEX as a delivery platform for the poorly soluble ST101036."},"36732163":{"title":"Route and antigen shape immunity to dmLT-adjuvanted vaccines to a greater extent than biochemical stress or formulation excipients.","abstract":"A key aspect to vaccine efficacy is formulation stability. Biochemical evaluations provide information on optimal compositions or thermal stability but are routinely validated by ex vivo analysis and not efficacy in animal models. Here we assessed formulations identified to improve or reduce stability of the mucosal adjuvant dmLT being investigated in polio and enterotoxigenic E. coli (ETEC) clinical vaccines. We observed biochemical changes to dmLT protein with formulation or thermal stress, including aggregation or subunit dissociation or alternatively resistance against these changes with specific buffer compositions. However, upon injection or mucosal vaccination with ETEC fimbriae adhesin proteins or inactivated polio virus, experimental findings indicated immunization route and co-administered antigen impacted vaccine immunogenicity more so than dmLT formulation stability (or instability). These results indicate the importance of both biochemical and vaccine-derived immunity assessment in formulation optimization. In addition, these studies have implications for use of dmLT in clinical settings and for delivery in resource poor settings."},"36741402":{"title":"The adjuvants dmLT and mmCT enhance humoral immune responses to a pneumococcal conjugate vaccine after both parenteral or mucosal immunization of neonatal mice.","abstract":"Immaturity of the neonatal immune system contributes to increased susceptibility to infectious diseases and poor vaccine responses. Therefore, better strategies for early life vaccination are needed. Adjuvants can enhance the magnitude and duration of immune responses. In this study we assessed the effects of the adjuvants dmLT and mmCT and different immunization routes, subcutaneous (s.c.) and intranasal (i.n.), on neonatal immune response to a pneumococcal conjugate vaccine Pn1-CRM197. Pn1-specific antibody (Ab) levels of neonatal mice immunized with Pn1-CRM197 alone were low. The adjuvants enhanced IgG Ab responses up to 8 weeks after immunization, more after s.c. than i.n. immunization. On the contrary, i.n. immunization with either adjuvant enhanced serum and salivary IgA levels more than s.c. immunization. In addition, both dmLT and mmCT enhanced germinal center formation and accordingly, dmLT and mmCT enhanced the induction and persistence of Pn1-specific IgG+ Ab-secreting cells (ASCs) in spleen and bone marrow (BM), irrespective of the immunization route. Furthermore, i.n. immunization enhanced Pn1-specific IgA+ ASCs in BM more than s.c. immunizatiofimmu.2022.1078904n. However, a higher i.n. dose of the Pn1-CRM197 was needed to achieve IgG response comparable to that elicited by s.c. immunization with either adjuvant. We conclude that dmLT and mmCT enhance both induction and persistence of the neonatal immune response to the vaccine Pn1-CRM197, following mucosal or parenteral immunization. This indicates that dmLT and mmCT are promising adjuvants for developing safe and effective early life vaccination strategies."},"36746738":{"title":"Expression kinetics of cytokines and the humoral antibody response concerning short-term protection induced by radiation-attenuated Trypanosoma evansi in bovine calves.","abstract":"'Surra', an economically important disease of livestock, is caused by the parasitic blood protozoon Trypanosoma evansi. Both innate and adaptive immunity contribute to the protection against this infection. T-helper cells play a crucial role in the antibody-mediated clearance of T. evansi. We present here the data on the kinetics of expression of important Th1, Th2 and Th17 cytokines, vis-a-vis the dynamics of humoral response in bovine calves following immunization with γ-radiation-attenuated live T. evansi and later challenged with homologous virulent T. evansi. Significant upregulation of the pro-inflammatory Th1 and Th17 cytokines was correlated with the IgG2-mediated protection in the immunized bovine calves post-challenge. The calves were immunized with 5 × 106 500 Gy γ-radiation-attenuated live T. evansi (horse isolate) thrice at 15 days intervals through the subcutaneous route and subsequently, challenged with 1 × 103 virulent T. evansi on day 50. Significantly high serum IgG (1:1600) and IgM (1:800) titres were recorded on week 2 PC, whereas the peak serum IgG2 titre (1:800) was recorded on week 6 PC. Significant upregulation of IFN-γ, TNF, IL-1β, and IL-2 was recorded between days 1 to 3 PC, while the same for IL-17 was recorded on day 14 PC. The immunized calves were free from parasitemia post-challenge and were clinically healthy till the end of the experiment. Significant upregulation of IL-10 and IL-4 transcripts and a corresponding increase of serum IgG1 titre in the placebo group helped patency of the parasite in an anti-inflammatory environment and clinical exacerbation of the disease. The expression of the important Th1 cytokines was crucial for antibody-mediated short-term protection against a lethal challenge of T. evansi in cattle."},"36754965":{"title":"Effects of adjuvants in a rabies-vectored Ebola virus vaccine on protection from surrogate challenge.","abstract":"Ebola virus is the primary contributor to the global threat of filovirus severe hemorrhagic fever, and Ebola virus disease has a case fatality rate of 50-90%. An inactivated, bivalent filovirus/rabies virus vaccine, FILORAB1, consists of recombinant rabies virus virions expressing the Ebola virus glycoprotein. FILORAB1 is immunogenic and protective from Ebola virus challenge in mice and non-human primates, and protection is enhanced when formulated with toll-like receptor 4 agonist Glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant (GLA) in a squalene oil-in-water emulsion (SE). Through an adjuvant comparison in mice, we demonstrate that GLA-SE improves FILORAB1 efficacy by activating the innate immune system and shaping a Th1-biased adaptive immune response. GLA-SE adjuvanted mice and those adjuvanted with the SE component are better protected from surrogate challenge, while Th2 alum adjuvanted mice are not. Additionally, the immune response to FILORAB1 is long-lasting, as exhibited by highly-maintained serum antibody titers and long-lived cells in the spleen and bone marrow."},"36761735":{"title":"A novel defined TLR3 agonist as an effective vaccine adjuvant.","abstract":"Synthetic double-stranded RNA analogs recognized by Toll-like receptor 3 (TLR3) are an attractive adjuvant candidate for vaccines, especially against intracellular pathogens or tumors, because of their ability to enhance T cell and antibody responses. Although poly(I:C) is a representative dsRNA with potent adjuvanticity, its clinical application has been limited due to heterogeneous molecular size, inconsistent activity, poor stability, and toxicity. To overcome these limitations, we developed a novel dsRNA-based TLR3 agonist named NexaVant (NVT) by using PCR-coupled bidirectional in vitro transcription. Agarose gel electrophoresis and reverse phase-HPLC analysis demonstrated that NVT is a single 275-kDa homogeneous molecule. NVT appears to be stable since its appearance, concentration, and molecular size were unaffected under 6 months of accelerated storage conditions. Moreover, preclinical evaluation of toxicity under good laboratory practices showed that NVT is a safe substance without any signs of serious toxicity. NVT stimulated TLR3 and increased the expression of viral nucleic acid sensors TLR3, MDA-5, and RIG-1. When intramuscularly injected into C57BL/6 mice, ovalbumin (OVA) plus NVT highly increased the migration of dendritic cells (DCs), macrophages, and neutrophils into inguinal lymph node (iLN) compared with OVA alone. In addition, NVT substantially induced the phenotypic markers of DC maturation and activation including MHC-II, CD40, CD80, and CD86 together with IFN-β production. Furthermore, NVT exhibited an appropriate adjuvanticity because it elevated OVA-specific IgG, in particular, higher levels of IgG2c (Th1-type) but lower IgG1 (Th2-type). Concomitantly, NVT increased the levels of Th1-type T cells such as IFN-γ+CD4+ and IFN-γ+CD8+ cells in response to OVA stimulation. Collectively, we suggest that NVT with appropriate safety and effectiveness is a novel and promising adjuvant for vaccines, especially those requiring T cell mediated immunity such as viral and cancer vaccines."},"36868876":{"title":"Immunogenicity of adjuvanted plant-produced SARS-CoV-2 Beta spike VLP vaccine in New Zealand white rabbits.","abstract":"The outbreak of the SARS-CoV-2 global pandemic heightened the pace of vaccine development with various vaccines being approved for human use in a span of 24 months. The SARS-CoV-2 trimeric spike (S) surface glycoprotein, which mediates viral entry by binding to ACE2, is a key target for vaccines and therapeutic antibodies. Plant biopharming is recognized for its scalability, speed, versatility, and low production costs and is an increasingly promising molecular pharming vaccine platform for human health. We developed Nicotiana benthamiana-produced SARS-CoV-2 virus-like particle (VLP) vaccine candidates displaying the S-protein of the Beta (B.1.351) variant of concern (VOC), which triggered cross-reactive neutralising antibodies against Delta (B.1.617.2) and Omicron (B.1.1.529) VOCs. In this study, immunogenicity of the VLPs (5 µg per dose) adjuvanted with three independent adjuvants i.e. oil-in-water based adjuvants SEPIVAC SWETM (Seppic, France) and \"AS IS\" (Afrigen, South Africa) as well as a slow-release synthetic oligodeoxynucleotide (ODN) adjuvant designated NADA (Disease Control Africa, South Africa) were evaluated in New Zealand white rabbits and resulted in robust neutralising antibody responses after booster vaccination, ranging from 1:5341 to as high as 1:18204. Serum neutralising antibodies elicited by the Beta variant VLP vaccine also showed cross-neutralisation against the Delta and Omicron variants with neutralising titres ranging from 1:1702 and 1:971, respectively. Collectively, these data provide support for the development of a plant-produced VLP based candidate vaccine against SARS-CoV-2 based on circulating variants of concern."},"36878897":{"title":"Safety and immunogenicity of a thermostable ID93 + GLA-SE tuberculosis vaccine candidate in healthy adults.","abstract":"Adjuvant-containing subunit vaccines represent a promising approach for protection against tuberculosis (TB), but current candidates require refrigerated storage. Here we present results from a randomized, double-blinded Phase 1 clinical trial (NCT03722472) evaluating the safety, tolerability, and immunogenicity of a thermostable lyophilized single-vial presentation of the ID93 + GLA-SE vaccine candidate compared to the non-thermostable two-vial vaccine presentation in healthy adults. Participants were monitored for primary, secondary, and exploratory endpoints following intramuscular administration of two vaccine doses 56 days apart. Primary endpoints included local and systemic reactogenicity and adverse events. Secondary endpoints included antigen-specific antibody (IgG) and cellular immune responses (cytokine-producing peripheral blood mononuclear cells and T cells). Both vaccine presentations are safe and well tolerated and elicit robust antigen-specific serum antibody and Th1-type cellular immune responses. Compared to the non-thermostable presentation, the thermostable vaccine formulation generates greater serum antibody responses (p < 0.05) and more antibody-secreting cells (p < 0.05). In this work, we show the thermostable ID93 + GLA-SE vaccine candidate is safe and immunogenic in healthy adults."},"36891311":{"title":"A-910823, a squalene-based emulsion adjuvant, induces T follicular helper cells and humoral immune responses via α-tocopherol component.","abstract":"Adjuvants are chemical or biological materials that enhance the efficacy of vaccines. A-910823 is a squalene-based emulsion adjuvant used for S-268019-b, a novel vaccine against severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) that is currently in clinical development. Published evidence has demonstrated that A-910823 can enhance the induction of neutralizing antibodies against SARS-CoV-2 in humans and animal models. However, the characteristics and mechanisms of the immune responses induced by A-910823 are not yet known. To characterize A-910823, we compared the adaptive immune response profile enhanced by A-910823 with that of other adjuvants (AddaVax, QS21, aluminum salt-based adjuvants, and empty lipid nanoparticle [eLNP]) in a murine model. Compared with other adjuvants, A-910823 enhanced humoral immune responses to an equal or greater extent following potent T follicular helper (Tfh) and germinal center B (GCB) cell induction, without inducing a strong systemic inflammatory cytokine response. Furthermore, S-268019-b containing A-910823 adjuvant produced similar results even when given as a booster dose following primary administration of a lipid nanoparticle-encapsulated messenger RNA (mRNA-LNP) vaccine. Preparation of modified A-910823 adjuvants to identify which components of A-910823 play a role in driving the adjuvant effect and detailed evaluation of the immunological characteristics induced by each adjuvant showed that the induction of humoral immunity and Tfh and GCB cell induction in A-910823 were dependent on α-tocopherol. Finally, we revealed that the recruitment of inflammatory cells to the draining lymph nodes and induction of serum cytokines and chemokines by A-910823 were also dependent on the α-tocopherol component. This study demonstrates that the novel adjuvant A-910823 is capable of robust Tfh cell induction and humoral immune responses, even when given as a booster dose. The findings also emphasize that α-tocopherol drives the potent Tfh-inducing adjuvant function of A-910823. Overall, our data provide key information that may inform the future production of improved adjuvants."},"36963999":{"title":"Preclinical evaluation of immunogenicity, efficacy and safety of a recombinant plant-based SARS-CoV-2 RBD vaccine formulated with 3M-052-Alum adjuvant.","abstract":"Cost-effective, and accessible vaccines are needed for mass immunization to control the ongoing coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), especially in low- and middle-income countries (LMIC).A plant-based vaccine is an attractive technology platform since the recombinant proteins can be easily produced at large scale and low cost. For the recombinant subunit-based vaccines, effective adjuvants are crucial to enhance the magnitude and breadth of immune responses elicited by the vaccine. In this study, we report a preclinical evaluation of the immunogenicity, efficacy and safety of a recombinant plant-based SARS-CoV-2 RBD vaccine formulated with 3M-052 (TLR7/8 agonist)-Alum adjuvant. This vaccine formulation, named Baiya SARS-CoV-2 Vax 2, induced significant levels of RBD-specific IgG and neutralizing antibody responses in mice. A viral challenge study using humanized K18-hACE2 mice has shown that animals vaccinated with two doses of Baiya SARS-CoV-2 Vax 2 established immune protection against SARS-CoV-2. A study in nonhuman primates (cynomolgus monkeys) indicated that immunization with two doses of Baiya SARS-CoV-2 Vax 2 was safe, well tolerated, and induced neutralizing antibodies against the prototype virus and other viral variants (Alpha, Beta, Gamma, Delta, and Omicron subvariants). The toxicity of Baiya SARS-CoV-2 Vax 2 was further investigated in Jcl:SD rats, which demonstrated that a single dose and repeated doses of Baiya SARS-CoV-2 Vax 2 were well tolerated and no mortality or unanticipated findings were observed. Overall, these preclinical findings support further clinical development of Baiya SARS-CoV-2 Vax 2."},"36967286":{"title":"Effect of adjuvanting RBD-dimer-based subunit COVID-19 vaccines with Sepivac SWE™.","abstract":"Protein subunit vaccines have been widely used to combat infectious diseases, including the current COVID-19 pandemic. Adjuvants play the key role in shaping the quality and magnitude of the immune response to protein and inactivated vaccines. We previously developed a protein subunit COVID-19 vaccine, termed ZF2001, based on an aluminium hydroxide-adjuvanted tandem-repeat dimeric receptor-binding domain (RBD) of the viral spike (S) protein. Here, we described the use of a squalene-based oil-in-water adjuvant, Sepivac SWE™ (abbreviated to SWE), to further improve the immunogenicity of this RBD-dimer-based subunit vaccines. Compared with ZF2001, SWE adjuvant enhanced the antibody and CD4+ T-cell responses in mice with at least 10 fold of dose sparing compared with ZF2001 adjuvanted with aluminium hydroxide. SWE-adjuvanted vaccine protected mice against SARS-CoV-2 challenge. To ensure adequate protection against the currently circulating Omicron variant, we evaluated this adjuvant in combination with Delta-Omicron chimeric RBD-dimer. SWE significantly increased antibody responses compared with aluminium hydroxide adjuvant and afforded greater neutralization breadth. These data highlight the advantage of emulsion-based adjuvants to elevate the protective immune response of protein subunit COVID-19 vaccines."},"36999015":{"title":"Design of a multi-epitopic vaccine against Epstein-Barr virus via computer-based methods.","abstract":"Scientific findings have shown that Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) plays a key role in the development of some tumor diseases. Therefore, this study intends to take a practical step in controlling the pathogenicity of this virus by designing an effective vaccine based on the virus Capsid Envelope and Epstein-Barr nuclear immunogen (EBNA) Proteins Epitopes. Currently, there are no effective drugs or vaccines to treat or prevent EBV infection. So, we applied a computer-based strategy to design an epitope vaccine. We designed a powerful multi-epitope peptide vaccine against EBV using in silico analysis. The vaccine is made up of 844 amino acids derived from three different types of proteins (Envelope, Capsid, EBNA) found in two different viral strains. responses. These epitopes have a high immunogenic capacity and are not likely to cause allergies. To enhance the vaccine immunogenicity, we used rOv-ASP-1, a recombinant Onchocerca volvulus activation associated protein-1, as an adjuvant and linked it to the vaccine's N and C terminus. The physicochemical and immunological properties of the vaccine structure were evaluated. The proposed vaccine was stable, with a stability index of 33.57 and a pI of 10.10, according to bioinformatic predictions. Docking analysis revealed that the vaccine protein binds correctly with immunological receptors. Our results demonstrated that the multi-epitope vaccine might be potentially immunogenic and induce humoral and cellular immune responses against EBV. This vaccine can interact appropriately with immunological receptors Also, it has a high-quality structure and suitable characteristics such as high stability."},"37023458":{"title":"The Adjuvant Combination of dmLT and Monophosphoryl Lipid A Activates the Canonical, Nonpyroptotic NLRP3 Inflammasome in Dendritic Cells and Significantly Interacts to Expand Antigen-Specific CD4 T Cells.","abstract":"Adjuvants are often essential additions to vaccines that enhance the activation of innate immune cells, leading to more potent and protective T and B cell responses. Only a few vaccine adjuvants are currently used in approved vaccine formulations in the United States. Combinations of one or more adjuvants have the potential to increase the efficacy of existing and next-generation vaccines. In this study, we investigated how the nontoxic double mutant Escherichia coli heat-labile toxin R192G/L211A (dmLT), when combined with the TLR4 agonist monophosphoryl lipid A (MPL-A), impacted innate and adaptive immune responses to vaccination in mice. We found that the combination of dmLT and MPL-A induced an expansion of Ag-specific, multifaceted Th1/2/17 CD4 T cells higher than that explained by adding responses to either adjuvant alone. Furthermore, we observed more robust activation of primary mouse bone marrow-derived dendritic cells in the combination adjuvant-treated group via engagement of the canonical NOD-like receptor family pyrin domain containing 3 (NLRP3) inflammasome complex. This was marked by a multiplicative increase in the secretion of active IL-1β that was independent of classical gasdermin D-mediated pyroptosis. Moreover, the combination adjuvant increased the production of the secondary messengers cAMP and PGE2 in dendritic cells. These results demonstrate how certain adjuvant combinations could be used to potentiate better vaccine responses to combat a variety of pathogens."},"37029167":{"title":"Glycosylated nanoparticle-based PfCSP vaccine confers long-lasting antibody responses and sterile protection in mouse malaria model.","abstract":"The development of an effective and durable vaccine remains a central goal in the fight against malaria. Circumsporozoite protein (CSP) is the major surface protein of sporozoites and the target of the only licensed Plasmodium falciparum (Pf) malaria vaccine, RTS,S/AS01. However, vaccine efficacy is low and short-lived, highlighting the need for a second-generation vaccine with superior efficacy and durability. Here, we report a Helicobacter pylori apoferritin-based nanoparticle immunogen that elicits strong B cell responses against PfCSP epitopes that are targeted by the most potent human monoclonal antibodies. Glycan engineering of the scaffold and fusion of an exogenous T cell epitope enhanced the anti-PfCSP B cell response eliciting strong, long-lived and protective humoral immunity in mice. Our study highlights the power of rational vaccine design to generate a highly efficacious second-generation anti-infective malaria vaccine candidate and provides the basis for its further development."},"37033992":{"title":"Development of a broadly active influenza intranasal vaccine adjuvanted with self-assembled particles composed of mastoparan-7 and CpG.","abstract":"Currently licensed vaccine adjuvants offer limited mucosal immunity, which is needed to better combat respiratory infections such as influenza. Mast cells (MCs) are emerging as a target for a new class of mucosal vaccine adjuvants. Here, we developed and characterized a nanoparticulate adjuvant composed of an MC activator [mastoparan-7 (M7)] and a TLR ligand (CpG). This novel nanoparticle (NP) adjuvant was co-formulated with a computationally optimized broadly reactive antigen (COBRA) for hemagglutinin (HA), which is broadly reactive against influenza strains. M7 was combined at different ratios with CpG and tested for in vitro immune responses and cytotoxicity. We observed significantly higher cytokine production in dendritic cells and MCs with the lowest cytotoxicity at a charge-neutralizing ratio of nitrogen/phosphate = 1 for M7 and CpG. This combination formed spherical NPs approximately 200 nm in diameter with self-assembling capacity. Mice were vaccinated intranasally with COBRA HA and M7-CpG NPs in a prime-boost-boost schedule. Vaccinated mice had significantly higher antigen-specific antibody responses (IgG and IgA) in serum and mucosa compared with controls. Splenocytes from vaccinated mice had significantly increased cytokine production upon antigen recall and the presence of central and effector memory T cells in draining lymph nodes. Finally, co-immunization with NPs and COBRA HA induced influenza H3N2-specific HA inhibition antibody titers across multiple strains and partially protected mice from a challenge against an H3N2 virus. These results illustrate that the M7-CpG NP adjuvant combination can induce a protective immune response with a broadly reactive influenza antigen via mucosal vaccination."},"37063899":{"title":"C-type lectin receptor agonists elicit functional IL21-expressing Tfh cells and induce primary B cell responses in neonates.","abstract":"C-type lectin receptor (CLR) agonists emerged as superior inducers of primary B cell responses in early life compared with Toll-like receptor (TLR) agonists, while both types of adjuvants are potent in adults. Here, we explored the mechanisms accounting for the differences in neonatal adjuvanticity between a CLR-based (CAF®01) and a TLR4-based (GLA-SE) adjuvant administered with influenza hemagglutinin (HA) in neonatal mice, by using transcriptomics and systems biology analyses. On day 7 after immunization, HA/CAF01 increased IL6 and IL21 levels in the draining lymph nodes, while HA/GLA-SE increased IL10. CAF01 induced mixed Th1/Th17 neonatal responses while T cell responses induced by GLA-SE had a more pronounced Th2-profile. Only CAF01 induced T follicular helper (Tfh) cells expressing high levels of IL21 similar to levels induced in adult mice, which is essential for germinal center (GC) formation. Accordingly, only CAF01- induced neonatal Tfh cells activated adoptively transferred hen egg lysozyme (HEL)-specific B cells to form HEL+ GC B cells in neonatal mice upon vaccination with HEL-OVA. Collectively, the data show that CLR-based adjuvants are promising neonatal and infant adjuvants due to their ability to harness Tfh responses in early life."},"37166567":{"title":"Safety and Immunogenicity of the ID93 + GLA-SE Tuberculosis Vaccine in BCG-Vaccinated Healthy Adults: A Randomized, Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Phase 2 Trial.","abstract":"This randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, phase 2a trial was conducted to evaluate the safety and immunogenicity of the ID93 + glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant (GLA)-stable emulsion (SE) vaccine in human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-negative, previously Bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG)-vaccinated, and QuantiFERON-TB-negative healthy adults in South Korea. Adults (n = 107) with no signs or symptoms of tuberculosis were randomly assigned to receive three intramuscular injections of 2 μg ID93 + 5 μg GLA-SE, 10 μg ID93 + 5 μg GLA-SE, or 0.9% normal saline placebo on days 0, 28, and 56. For safety assessment, data on solicited adverse events (AEs), unsolicited AEs, serious AEs (SAEs), and special interest AEs were collected. Antigen-specific antibody responses were measured using serum enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. T-cell immune responses were measured using enzyme-linked immunospot and intracellular cytokine staining. No SAEs, deaths, or AEs leading to treatment discontinuation were found. The solicited local and systemic AEs observed were consistent with those previously reported. Compared with adults administered with the placebo, those administered with three intramuscular vaccine injections exhibited significantly higher antigen-specific antibody levels and Type 1 T-helper cellular immune responses. The ID93 + GLA-SE vaccine induced antigen-specific cellular and humoral immune responses, with an acceptable safety profile in previously healthy, BCG-vaccinated, Mycobacterium tuberculosis-uninfected adult healthcare workers. This clinical trial was retrospectively registered on 16 January 2019 at Clinicaltrials.gov (NCT03806686)."},"37199221":{"title":"Macrophage activation syndrome triggered by methotrexate-related lymphoproliferative disease in a patient with rheumatoid arthritis.","abstract":"A 56-year-old woman was treated for rheumatoid arthritis for 17 years with methotrexate (MTX). Night sweats, fever and weight loss made her visit our hospital. Although levofloxacin failed to resolve her fever, she was suspected of having sepsis because of pancytopenia, elevated procalcitonin and a nodular lesion in the lung. After urgent hospitalization, she was diagnosed finally with the methotrexate-related lymphoproliferative disorder (MTX-LPD) associated with macrophage activation syndrome (MAS). Her general condition was improved with MTX withdrawal and 5-day high-dose glucocorticoid administration. Thus, even when the patient was critically ill with MAS, no cytotoxic agents were required to control MTX-LPD."},"37243042":{"title":"Use of an ETEC Proteome Microarray to Evaluate Cross-Reactivity of ETVAX® Vaccine-Induced IgG Antibodies in Zambian Children.","abstract":"Developing a broadly protective vaccine covering most ETEC variants has been elusive. The most clinically advanced candidate yet is an oral inactivated ETEC vaccine (ETVAX®). We report on the use of a proteome microarray for the assessment of cross-reactivity of anti-ETVAX® IgG antibodies against over 4000 ETEC antigens and proteins. We evaluated 40 (pre-and post-vaccination) plasma samples from 20 Zambian children aged 10-23 months that participated in a phase 1 trial investigating the safety, tolerability, and immunogenicity of ETVAX® adjuvanted with dmLT. Pre-vaccination samples revealed high IgG responses to a variety of ETEC proteins including classical ETEC antigens (CFs and LT) and non-classical antigens. Post-vaccination reactivity to CFA/I, CS3, CS6, and LTB was stronger than baseline among the vaccinated compared to the placebo group. Interestingly, we noted significantly high post-vaccination responses to three non-vaccine ETEC proteins: CS4, CS14, and PCF071 (p = 0.043, p = 0.028, and p = 0.00039, respectively), suggestive of cross-reactive responses to CFA/I. However, similar responses were observed in the placebo group, indicating the need for larger studies. We conclude that the ETEC microarray is a useful tool for investigating antibody responses to numerous antigens, especially because it may not be practicable to include all antigens in a single vaccine."},"37243234":{"title":"Novel Adjuvant S-540956 Targets Lymph Nodes and Reduces Genital Recurrences and Vaginal Shedding of HSV-2 DNA When Administered with HSV-2 Glycoprotein D as a Therapeutic Vaccine in Guinea Pigs.","abstract":"Herpes simplex virus type 2 (HSV-2) is a leading cause of genital ulcer disease and a major risk factor for acquisition and transmission of HIV. Frequent recurrent genital lesions and concerns about transmitting infection to intimate partners affect the quality of life of infected individuals. Therapeutic vaccines are urgently needed to reduce the frequency of genital lesions and transmission. S-540956 is a novel vaccine adjuvant that contains CpG oligonucleotide ODN2006 annealed to its complementary sequence and conjugated to a lipid that targets the adjuvant to lymph nodes. Our primary goal was to compare S-540956 administered with HSV-2 glycoprotein D (gD2) with no treatment in a guinea pig model of recurrent genital herpes (studies 1 and 2). Our secondary goals were to compare S-540956 with oligonucleotide ODN2006 (study1) or glucopyranosyl lipid A in a stable oil-in-water nano-emulsion (GLA-SE) (study 2). gD2/S-540956 reduced the number of days with recurrent genital lesions by 56%, vaginal shedding of HSV-2 DNA by 49%, and both combined by 54% compared to PBS, and was more efficacious than the two other adjuvants. Our results indicate that S-540956 has great potential as an adjuvant for a therapeutic vaccine for genital herpes, and merits further evaluation with the addition of potent T cell immunogens."},"37258506":{"title":"Establishment of isotype-switched, antigen-specific B cells in multiple mucosal tissues using non-mucosal immunization.","abstract":"Although most pathogens infect the human body via mucosal surfaces, very few injectable vaccines can specifically target immune cells to these tissues where their effector functions would be most desirable. We have previously shown that certain adjuvants can program vaccine-specific helper T cells to migrate to the gut, even when the vaccine is delivered non-mucosally. It is not known whether this is true for antigen-specific B cell responses. Here we show that a single intradermal vaccination with the adjuvant double mutant heat-labile toxin (dmLT) induces a robust endogenous, vaccine-specific, isotype-switched B cell response. When the vaccine was intradermally boosted, we detected non-circulating vaccine-specific B cell responses in the lamina propria of the large intestines, Peyer's patches, and lungs. When compared to the TLR9 ligand adjuvant CpG, only dmLT was able to drive the establishment of isotype-switched resident B cells in these mucosal tissues, even when the dmLT-adjuvanted vaccine was administered non-mucosally. Further, we found that the transcription factor Batf3 was important for the full germinal center reaction, isotype switching, and Peyer's patch migration of these B cells. Collectively, these data indicate that specific adjuvants can promote mucosal homing and the establishment of activated, antigen-specific B cells in mucosal tissues, even when these adjuvants are delivered by a non-mucosal route. These findings could fundamentally change the way future vaccines are formulated and delivered."},"37355452":{"title":"An Advax-CpG55.2™ adjuvanted recombinant spike protein vaccine protects cynomolgus macaques from a homologous SARS-CoV-2 virus challenge.","abstract":"Traditional protein-based vaccine approaches to COVID-19 were overshadowed by the new mRNA and adenoviral vector vaccine approaches which were first to receive marketing authorization. The current study tested for the first time in repurposed aged (median 15.4 years) cynomolgus macaques, a novel Advax-CpG55.2™ adjuvanted recombinant extracellular domain spike protein trimer antigen for immunogenicity, protection and safety. Nine animals received two intramuscular injections 10 days apart of recombinant spike protein (25 μg) with Advax-CpG55.2™ (10 mg/200 μg) and 5 controls received saline injections. Serum antibody levels were followed for 3 months and then the animals were challenged with SARS-CoV-2 virus. Clinical signs, local reactions, body weight, food consumption and antibody levels were monitored till termination on either day 3 or 7 post-infection. Two weeks after the second dose, 8/9 immunized macaques had high serum spike and receptor binding domain binding antibodies that were able to cross-neutralize Alpha (B.1.1.7), Beta (B.1.351), Gamma (P.1), Delta (B.1.617.2) and, to a lesser extent, Omicron variants (B.1.1.529 ). Antibody levels decayed over the subsequent 3 months, and minimal neutralizing antibody was detectable immediately prior to the challenge which used a vaccine-homologous Wuhan-like ancestral virus. Of the nine vaccinated animals, only one 18-year-old female sacrificed at d3 had low levels of lung virus, versus 100 % of the control animals. Four of 5 (80 %) control animals had positive lung staining for SARS-CoV-2 virus versus just 1 of 9 (11 %) in the immunized group. The immunized animals exhibited better maintenance of appetite post-challenge. Neutralizing antibody levels rebounded rapidly in immunized animals, post-challenge. This data supports the benefits of Advax-CpG adjuvanted recombinant spike protein vaccine in protecting against a homologous SARS-CoV-2 infection."},"37357073":{"title":"Characterization of immune responses to two and three doses of the adenoviral vectored vaccine ChAdOx1 nCov-19 and the whole virion inactivated vaccine BBV152 in a mix-and-match study in India.","abstract":"Infections with SARS-CoV-2 variants and declining immunity after primary vaccination, encouraged the use of booster doses. Some countries changed their immunization programmes to boost with vaccines different from the ones in their original schedule, based on results from immunogenicity and effectiveness studies. This study reports immunological analysis of samples collected in a phase 4 randomized trial, where participants who had previously received two primary doses of ChAdOx1 nCov-19 (ChAd) or inactivated BBV152 vaccine were randomized to receive either ChAd or BBV152 booster and further categorized as: Group 1 (two primary doses of ChAd - ChAd booster), Group 2 (two primary doses of ChAd - BBV152 booster), Group 3 (two primary doses of BBV152 - ChAd booster), and Group 4 (two primary doses of BBV152 - BBV152 booster). SARS-CoV-2 specific cellular and humoral responses at day 0 (pre-boost samples 12-36 weeks after the second primary dose), and at day 28 post booster, were measured in a subset of participants (ChAd recipients, n = 37 and BBV152 recipients, n = 36). Additionally, on day180 post-booster humoral responses were assessed for the entire cohort (N = 378). Primary vaccination with 2 doses of BBV152 generated higher memory-B cells (median% 0.41 vs 0.35) and cytokine producing CD8-Tcells (median% 0.09 vs 0.04) while lower anti-spike IgG levels (medianAU/ml: 12,433 vs 27,074) as compared to ChAd. Irrespective of the primary vaccine received, ChAd boosted individuals generated higher memory-B cell frequencies and anti-spike IgG levels as compared to BBV152 booster. The percentage ACE-2 inhibition against Omicron and its sub-variants was higher in Group 3 (median > 60 %) as compared to other groups (median < 25 %). At day180 post booster the hierarchy of the antibody amounts was Group 1 ∼ Group 2 ∼ Group 3 > Group 4. Sustained humoral and robust cellular immune response to SARS-CoV-2 can be obtained with ChAd booster irrespective of the primary vaccination regimen. The trial is registered with ISRTCN (CTRI/2021/08/035648)."},"37366520":{"title":"Stressed stability and protective efficacy of lead lyophilized formulations of ID93+GLA-SE tuberculosis vaccine.","abstract":"With the recent exception of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), tuberculosis (TB) causes more deaths globally than any other infectious disease, and approximately 1/3 of the world's population is infected with Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb). However, encouraging progress in TB vaccine development has been reported, with approximately 50% efficacy achieved in Phase 2b clinical testing of an adjuvanted subunit TB vaccine candidate. Nevertheless, current lead vaccine candidates require cold-chain transportation and storage. In addition to temperature stress, vaccines may be subject to several other stresses during storage and transport, including mechanical, photochemical, and oxidative stresses. Optimal formulations should enable vaccine configurations with enhanced stability and decreased sensitivity to physical and chemical stresses, thus reducing reliance on the cold chain and facilitating easier worldwide distribution. In this report, we describe the physicochemical stability performance of three lead thermostable formulations of the ID93 + GLA-SE TB vaccine candidate under various stress conditions. Moreover, we evaluate the impact of thermal stress on the protective efficacy of the vaccine formulations. We find that formulation composition impacts stressed stability performance, and our comprehensive evaluation enables selection of a lead single-vial lyophilized candidate containing the excipient trehalose and Tris buffer for advanced development."},"37366581":{"title":"Short-course subcutaneous treatment with PQ Grass strongly improves symptom and medication scores in grass allergy.","abstract":"A modified grass allergen subcutaneous immunotherapy (SCIT) product with MicroCrystalline Tyrosine and monophosphoryl lipid-A as an adjuvant system (Grass MATA MPL [PQ Grass]) is being developed as short-course treatment of grass-pollen allergic rhinitis (SAR) and/or rhinoconjunctivitis. We sought to evaluate the combined symptom and medication score (CSMS) of the optimized cumulative dose of 27,600 standardized units (SU) PQ Grass in a field setting prior to embarking on a pivotal Phase III trial. In this exploratory, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial subjects were enrolled across 14 sites (Germany and the United States of America). Six pre-seasonal subcutaneous injections of PQ Grass (using conventional or extended regimens) or placebo were administered to 119 subjects (aged 18-65 years) with moderate-to-severe SAR with or without asthma that was well-controlled. The primary efficacy endpoint was CSMS during peak grass pollen season (GPS). Secondary endpoints included Rhinoconjunctivitis Quality of Life Questionnaire standardized (RQLQ-S) and allergen-specific IgG4 response. The mean CSMS compared to placebo was 33.1% (p = .0325) and 39.5% (p = .0112) for the conventional and extended regimens, respectively. An increase in IgG4 was shown for both regimens (p < .01) as well as an improvement in total RQLQ-S for the extended regimen (mean change -0.72, p = .02). Both regimens were well-tolerated. This trial demonstrated a clinically relevant and statistically significant efficacy response to PQ Grass. Unprecedented effect sizes were reached for grass allergy of up to ≈40% compared to placebo for CSMS after only six PQ Grass injections. Both PQ Grass regimens were considered equally safe and well-tolerated. Based on enhanced efficacy profile extended regime will be progressed to the pivotal Phase III trial."},"37407405":{"title":"Intranasal VLP-RBD vaccine adjuvanted with BECC470 confers immunity against Delta SARS-CoV-2 challenge in K18-hACE2-mice.","abstract":"As the COVID-19 pandemic transitions into endemicity, seasonal boosters are a plausible reality across the globe. We hypothesize that intranasal vaccines can provide better protection against asymptomatic infections and more transmissible variants of SARS-CoV-2. To formulate a protective intranasal vaccine, we utilized a VLP-based platform. Hepatitis B surface antigen-based virus like particles (VLP) linked with receptor binding domain (RBD) antigen were paired with the TLR4-based agonist adjuvant, BECC 470. K18-hACE2 mice were primed and boosted at four-week intervals with either VLP-RBD-BECC or mRNA-1273. Both VLP-RBD-BECC and mRNA-1273 vaccination resulted in production of RBD-specific IgA antibodies in serum. RBD-specific IgA was also detected in the nasal wash and lung supernatants and were highest in VLP-RBD-BECC vaccinated mice. Interestingly, VLP-RBD-BECC vaccinated mice showed slightly lower levels of pre-challenge IgG responses, decreased RBD-ACE2 binding inhibition, and lower neutralizing activity in vitro than mRNA-1273 vaccinated mice. Both VLP-RBD-BECC and mRNA-1273 vaccinated mice were protected against challenge with a lethal dose of Delta variant SARS-CoV-2. Both vaccines limited viral replication and viral RNA burden in the lungs of mice. CXCL10 is a biomarker of severe SARS-CoV-2 infection and we observed both vaccines limited expression of serum and lung CXCL10. Strikingly, VLP-RBD-BECC when administered intranasally, limited lung inflammation at early timepoints that mRNA-1273 vaccination did not. VLP-RBD-BECC immunization elicited antibodies that do recognize SARS-CoV-2 Omicron variant. However, VLP-RBD-BECC immunized mice were protected from Omicron challenge with low viral burden. Conversely, mRNA-1273 immunized mice had low to no detectable virus in the lungs at day 2. Together, these data suggest that VLP-based vaccines paired with BECC adjuvant can be used to induce protective mucosal and systemic responses against SARS-CoV-2."},"37429853":{"title":"A lipidated TLR7/8 adjuvant enhances the efficacy of a vaccine against fentanyl in mice.","abstract":"Opioid use disorders (OUD) and opioid-related fatal overdoses are a public health concern in the United States. Approximately 100,000 fatal opioid-related overdoses occurred annually from mid-2020 to the present, the majority of which involved fentanyl or fentanyl analogs. Vaccines have been proposed as a therapeutic and prophylactic strategy to offer selective and long-lasting protection against accidental or deliberate exposure to fentanyl and closely related analogs. To support the development of a clinically viable anti-opioid vaccine suitable for human use, the incorporation of adjuvants will be required to elicit high titers of high-affinity circulating antibodies specific to the target opioid. Here we demonstrate that the addition of a synthetic TLR7/8 agonist, INI-4001, but not a synthetic TLR4 agonist, INI-2002, to a candidate conjugate vaccine consisting of a fentanyl-based hapten, F1, conjugated to the diphtheria cross-reactive material (CRM), significantly increased generation of high-affinity F1-specific antibody concentrations, and reduced drug distribution to the brain after fentanyl administration in mice."},"37454145":{"title":"The malaria blood stage antigen PfCyRPA formulated with the TLR-4 agonist adjuvant GLA-SE elicits parasite growth inhibitory antibodies in experimental animals.","abstract":"Plasmodium falciparum cysteine-rich protective antigen (PfCyRPA) is an invasion complex protein essential for erythrocyte invasion. In contrast to several previously clinically tested merozoite vaccine candidate antigens, PfCyRPA is not polymorphic, making it a promising candidate antigen for blood stage vaccine development. Mice and rabbits were immunized with vaccine formulations of recombinantly expressed PfCyRPA adjuvanted either with the glucopyranosyl lipid A (GLA) containing adjuvants GLA-LSQ, GLA-SE, GLA-Alum or with Nanoalum. ELISA and indirect immunofluorescence assays (IFA) were used to analyse elicited IgG titers and the P. falciparum growth inhibitory activity was determined with a standardized in vitro [3H]-hypoxanthine incorporation assay. In the mouse experiments, the GLA adjuvanted formulations were superior to the Nanoalum formulation with respect to antibody titer development, IFA sero-conversion rates and in vitro parasite growth-inhibitory activity. In rabbits, the highest titers of parasite growth inhibitory antibodies were obtained with the GLA-SE formulation. Comparable mean ELISA IgG endpoint titers were reached in rabbits after three immunizations with GLA-SE adjuvanted PfCyRPA doses of 5, 25 and 100 µg, but with 100 µg of antigen, only two immunizations were required to reach this titer. PfCyRPA formulated with the human-compatible adjuvant GLA-SE represents an attractive vaccine candidate for early clinical testing in a controlled P. falciparum blood stage challenge trial."},"37483830":{"title":"Physicochemical characterization of biological and synthetic forms of two lipid A-based TLR4 agonists.","abstract":"Toll-like receptor (TLR) agonists are recognized as potential immune-enhancing adjuvants and are included in several licensed vaccines. Monophosphoryl lipid A (MPL®, GlaxoSmithKline) is one such TLR4 agonist that has been approved for use in human vaccines, such as Cervarix and Shingrix. Due to the heterogeneous nature of biologically derived MPL and the need for safer and more potent adjuvants, our groups have developed the novel TLR4 agonist candidates, BECC438 and BECC470 using the Bacterial Enzymatic Combinatorial Chemistry (BECC) platform. BECC438 and BECC470 have been included in studies to test their adjuvant potential and found to be effective in vaccines against both viral and bacterial disease agents. Here, we report detailed biophysical characterization of BECC438 and BECC470 purified from a biological source (BECC438b and BECC470b, respectively) and synthesized chemically (BECC438s and BECC470s, respectively). Both BECC438s and BECC470s have identical acyl chain configurations, BECC438s is bis-phosphorylated and BECC470s is mono-phosphorylated with the removal of the 4' phosphate moiety. We determined the phase transition temperatures for the acyl chains of BECC438b and BECC470b and found them to be different from those exhibited by their synthetic counterparts. Furthermore, the phosphate groups of BECC438b and BECC470b are more highly hydrated than are those of BECC438s and BECC470s. In addition to exploring the BECC molecules' biophysical features in aqueous solution, we explored potential formulation of BECC438 and BECC470 with the aluminum-based adjuvant Alhydrogel and as part of an oil-in-water emulsion (Medimmune Emulsion or ME). All of the lipid A analogues could be fully absorbed to Alhydrogel or incorporated onto ME. Surprisingly, the BECC470s molecule, unlike the others, displayed a nearly baseline signal when monitored using a Limulus amebocyte lysate (LAL) endotoxin detection system. Despite this, it was shown to behave as an agonist for human and mouse TLR4 when tested using multiple cell-based systems. This work paves the way for further formulation optimization of two chemically defined TLR4 agonists that are showing great promise as vaccine adjuvants."},"37495191":{"title":"Physicochemical and immunological effects of adjuvant formulations with snake venom antigens for immunization of horses for antivenom production.","abstract":"Enhancement of antivenom immune responses in horses through adjuvant technology improves antivenom production efficiency, but substantial local reactogenicity associated with some traditional veterinary adjuvants limits their usability. To explore modern adjuvant systems suitable for generating antivenom responses in horses, we first assessed their physicochemical compatibility with Bothrops asper snake venom. Liposome and nanoparticle aluminum adjuvants exhibited changes in particle size and phospholipid content after mixing with venom, whereas squalene emulsion-based adjuvants remained stable. Next, we evaluated serum antibody response magnitude and neutralization capacity in horses immunized with adjuvant-containing Echis ocellatus, Bitis arietans, Naja nigricollis, and Dendroaspis polylepis venom preparations. Whereas all tested adjuvants elicited significant neutralization capacity against the viperid venoms, the greatest antibody responses were generated by a squalene-in-water emulsion, thus representing a promising novel alternative for antivenom production."},"37532609":{"title":"Oxygen excess ratio control of PEM fuel cell systems with prescribed regulation time.","abstract":"In this paper, we focus on addressing the air supply problem for fuel cells. The air supply system faces a challenge: operating at maximum load consumes a significant amount of power, while insufficient air can lead to oxygen starvation problems in fuel cells. An important metric, the oxygen excess ratio, indicates whether the fuel cell is receiving the appropriate amount of air. Unfortunately, directly measuring this ratio is generally impractical. To overcome this limitation, we propose a fixed-time observer that reconstructs the oxygen excess ratio within a short predetermined period. By utilizing this reconstructed index, we introduce a cascaded double-loop controller. Specifically, both the external and internal loops are regulated using a modified prescribed time control strategy. This approach enables the regulation of the oxygen excess ratio to the optimal value within a prescribed short time. The advantages of our proposed method are validated through hardware in-loop experiments, showcasing its superiority over conventional finite-time control techniques."},"37534309":{"title":"Heterologous mRNA-protein vaccination with Tc24 induces a robust cellular immune response against Trypanosoma cruzi, characterized by an increased level of polyfunctional CD8+ T-cells.","abstract":"Tc24 is a Trypanosoma cruzi-derived flagellar protein that, when formulated with a TLR-4 agonist adjuvant, induces a balanced immune response in mice, elevating IgG2a antibody titers and IFN-γ levels. Furthermore, vaccination with the recombinant Tc24 protein can reduce parasite levels and improve survival during acute infection. Although some mRNA vaccines have been proven to elicit a stronger immune response than some protein vaccines, they have not been used against T. cruzi. This work evaluates the immunogenicity of a heterologous prime/boost vaccination regimen using protein and mRNA-based Tc24 vaccines. Mice (C57BL/6) were vaccinated twice subcutaneously, three weeks apart, with either the Tc24-C4 protein + glucopyranosyl A (GLA)-squalene emulsion, Tc24 mRNA Lipid Nanoparticles, or with heterologous protein/mRNA or mRNA/protein combinations, respectively. Two weeks after the last vaccination, mice were euthanized, spleens were collected to measure antigen-specific T-cell responses, and sera were collected to evaluate IgG titers and isotypes. Heterologous presentation of the Tc24 antigen generated antigen-specific polyfunctional CD8+ T cells, a balanced Th1/Th2/Th17 cytokine profile, and a balanced humoral response with increased serum IgG, IgG1 and IgG2c antibody responses. We conclude that heterologous vaccination using Tc24 mRNA to prime and Tc24-C4 protein to boost induces a broad and robust antigen-specific immune response that was equivalent or superior to two doses of a homologous protein vaccine, the homologous mRNA vaccine and the heterologous Tc24-C4 Protein/mRNA vaccine."},"37558673":{"title":"Multifunctional IgG/IgM antibodies and cellular cytotoxicity are elicited by the full-length MSP1 SumayaVac-1 malaria vaccine.","abstract":"Radical control of malaria likely requires a vaccine that targets both the asymptomatic liver stages and the disease-causing blood stages of the human malaria parasite Plasmodium falciparum. While substantial progress has been made towards liver stage vaccines, the development of a blood stage vaccine is lagging behind. We have recently conducted a first-in-human clinical trial to evaluate the safety and immunogenicity of the recombinant, full-length merozoite surface protein 1 (MSP1FL) formulated with GLA-SE as adjuvant. Here, we show that the vaccine, termed SumayaVac-1, elicited both a humoral and cellular immune response as well as a recall T cell memory. The induced IgG and IgM antibodies were able to stimulate various Fc-mediated effector mechanisms associated with protection against malaria, including phagocytosis, release of reactive oxygen species, production of IFN-γ as well as complement activation and fixation. The multifunctional activity of the humoral immune response remained for at least 6 months after vaccination and was comparable to that of naturally acquired anti-MSP1 antibodies from semi-immune adults from Kenya. We further present evidence of SumayaVac-1 eliciting a recallable cellular cytotoxicity by IFN-γ producing CD8+ T cells. Our study revitalizes MSP1FL as a relevant blood stage vaccine candidate and warrants further evaluation of SumayaVac-1 in a phase II efficacy trial."},"37626150":{"title":"Immunogenicity of a Plasmodium vivax vaccine based on the duffy binding protein formulated using adjuvants compatible for use in humans.","abstract":"The invasion of reticulocytes by Plasmodium vivax merozoites is dependent on the interaction of the Plasmodium vivax Duffy Binding Protein (PvDBP) with the Duffy antigen receptor for chemokines (DARC). The N-terminal cysteine-rich region II of PvDBP (PvDBPII), which binds DARC, is a leading P. vivax malaria vaccine candidate. Here, we have evaluated the immunogenicity of recombinant PvDBPII formulated with the adjuvants Matrix-M and GLA-SE in mice. Analysis of the antibody responses revealed comparable ELISA recognition titres as well as similar recognition of native PvDBP in P. vivax schizonts by immunofluorescence assay. Moreover, antibodies elicited by the two adjuvant formulations had similar functional properties such as avidity, isotype profile and inhibition of PvDBPII-DARC binding. Furthermore, the anti-PvDBPII antibodies were able to block the interaction of DARC with the homologous PvDBPII SalI allele as well as the heterologous PvDBPII PvW1 allele from a Thai clinical isolate that is used for controlled human malaria infections (CHMI). The cross-reactivity of these antibodies with PvW1 suggest that immunization with the PvDBPII SalI strain should neutralize reticulocyte invasion by the challenge P. vivax strain PvW1."},"37630600":{"title":"The Immunogenicity and Properties of a Whole-Cell ETEC Vaccine Inactivated with Psoralen and UVA Light in Comparison to Formalin.","abstract":"Inactivated whole-cell vaccines present a full repertoire of antigens to the immune system. Formalin treatment, a standard method for microbial inactivation, can modify or destroy protein antigenic epitopes. We tested the hypothesis that photochemical inactivation with psoralen and UVA light (PUVA), which targets nucleic acid, would improve the immunogenicity of an Enterotoxigenic E. coli (ETEC) vaccine relative to a formalin-inactivated counterpart. Exposure of ETEC H10407 to PUVA using the psoralen drug 4'-Aminomethyltrioxsalen hydrochloride (AMT) yielded replication-incompetent bacteria that retained their metabolic activity. CFA/I-mediated mannose-resistant hemagglutination (MRHA) was equivalent for PUVA-inactivated and live ETEC, but was severely reduced for formalin-ETEC, indicating that PUVA preserved fimbrial protein functional integrity. The immunogenicity of PUVA-ETEC and formalin-ETEC was compared in mice ± double mutant heat-labile enterotoxin (dmLT) adjuvant. Two weeks after an intramuscular prime/boost, serum anti-ETEC IgG titers were similar for the two vaccines and were increased by dmLT. However, the IgG responses raised against several conserved ETEC proteins were greater after vaccination with PUVA-ETEC. In addition, PUVA-ETEC generated IgG specific for heat-labile toxin (LT) in the absence of dmLT, which was not a property of formalin-ETEC. These data are consistent with PUVA preserving ETEC protein antigens in their native-like form and justify the further testing of PUVA as a vaccine platform for ETEC using murine challenge models."},"37696935":{"title":"Impact of a TLR9 agonist and broadly neutralizing antibodies on HIV-1 persistence: the randomized phase 2a TITAN trial.","abstract":"Inducing antiretroviral therapy (ART)-free virological control is a critical step toward a human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) cure. In this phase 2a, placebo-controlled, double-blinded trial, 43 people (85% males) with HIV-1 on ART were randomized to (1) placebo/placebo, (2) lefitolimod (TLR9 agonist)/placebo, (3) placebo/broadly neutralizing anti-HIV-1 antibodies (bNAbs) or (4) lefitolimod/bNAb. ART interruption (ATI) started at week 3. Lefitolimod was administered once weekly for the first 8 weeks, and bNAbs were administered twice, 1 d before and 3 weeks after ATI. The primary endpoint was time to loss of virologic control after ATI. The median delay in time to loss of virologic control compared to the placebo/placebo group was 0.5 weeks (P = 0.49), 12.5 weeks (P = 0.003) and 9.5 weeks (P = 0.004) in the lefitolimod/placebo, placebo/bNAb and lefitolimod/bNAb groups, respectively. Among secondary endpoints, viral doubling time was slower for bNAb groups compared to non-bNAb groups, and the interventions were overall safe. We observed no added benefit of lefitolimod. Despite subtherapeutic plasma bNAb levels, 36% (4/11) in the placebo/bNAb group compared to 0% (0/10) in the placebo/placebo group maintained virologic control after the 25-week ATI. Although immunotherapy with lefitolimod did not lead to ART-free HIV-1 control, bNAbs may be important components in future HIV-1 curative strategies. ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT03837756 ."},"37744341":{"title":"Impact of the TLR4 agonist BECC438 on a novel vaccine formulation against Shigella spp.","abstract":"Shigellosis (bacillary dysentery) is a severe gastrointestinal infection with a global incidence of 90 million cases annually. Despite the severity of this disease, there is currently no licensed vaccine against shigellosis. Shigella's primary virulence factor is its type III secretion system (T3SS), which is a specialized nanomachine used to manipulate host cells. A fusion of T3SS injectisome needle tip protein IpaD and translocator protein IpaB, termed DBF, when admixed with the mucosal adjuvant double-mutant labile toxin (dmLT) from enterotoxigenic E. coli was protective using a murine pulmonary model. To facilitate the production of this platform, a recombinant protein that consisted of LTA-1, the active moiety of dmLT, and DBF were genetically fused, resulting in L-DBF, which showed improved protection against Shigella challenge. To extrapolate this protection from mice to humans, we modified the formulation to provide for a multivalent presentation with the addition of an adjuvant approved for use in human vaccines. Here, we show that L-DBF formulated (admix) with a newly developed TLR4 agonist called BECC438 (a detoxified lipid A analog identified as Bacterial Enzymatic Combinatorial Chemistry candidate #438), formulated as an oil-in-water emulsion, has a very high protective efficacy at low antigen doses against lethal Shigella challenge in our mouse model. Optimal protection was observed when this formulation was introduced at a mucosal site (intranasally). When the formulation was then evaluated for the immune response it elicits, protection appeared to correlate with high IFN-γ and IL-17 secretion from mucosal site lymphocytes."},"37766162":{"title":"CD4+ T Cell Responses to Toxoplasma gondii Are a Double-Edged Sword.","abstract":"CD4+ T cells have been found to play critical roles in the control of both acute and chronic Toxoplasma infection. Previous studies identified a protective role for the Toxoplasma CD4+ T cell-eliciting peptide AS15 (AVEIHRPVPGTAPPS) in C57BL/6J mice. Herein, we found that immunizing mice with AS15 combined with GLA-SE, a TLR-4 agonist in emulsion adjuvant, can be either helpful in protecting male and female mice at early stages against Type I and Type II Toxoplasma parasites or harmful (lethal with intestinal, hepatic, and spleen pathology associated with a storm of IL6). Introducing the universal CD4+ T cell epitope PADRE abrogates the harmful phenotype of AS15. Our findings demonstrate quantitative and qualitative features of an effective Toxoplasma-specific CD4+ T cell response that should be considered in testing next-generation vaccines against toxoplasmosis. Our results also are cautionary that individual vaccine constituents can cause severe harm depending on the company they keep."},"37771324":{"title":"Lyophilization Process Engineering and Thermostability of ID93 + GLA-SE, a Single-Vial Adjuvanted Subunit Tuberculosis Vaccine Candidate for Use in Clinical Studies.","abstract":"Promising clinical efficacy results have generated considerable enthusiasm for the potential impact of adjuvant-containing subunit tuberculosis vaccines. The development of a thermostable tuberculosis vaccine formulation could have significant benefits on both the cost and feasibility of global vaccine distribution. The tuberculosis vaccine candidate ID93 + GLA-SE has reached Phase 2 clinical testing, demonstrating safety and immunogenicity as a two-vial point-of-care mixture. Earlier publications have detailed efforts to develop a lead candidate single-vial lyophilized thermostable ID93 + GLA-SE vaccine formulation. The present report describes the lyophilization process development and scale-up of the lead candidate thermostable ID93 + GLA-SE composition. The manufacture of three full-scale engineering batches was followed by one batch made and released under current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP). Up to 4.5 years of stability data were collected. The cGMP lyophilized ID93 + GLA-SE passed all manufacturing release test criteria and maintained stability for at least 3 months when stored at 37°C and up to 24 months when stored at 5°C. This work represents the first advancement of a thermostable adjuvant-containing subunit tuberculosis vaccine to clinical testing readiness."},"37795982":{"title":"A broadly immunogenic polyvalent Shigella multiepitope fusion antigen protein protects against Shigella sonnei and Shigella flexneri lethal pulmonary challenges in mice.","abstract":"There are no licensed vaccines for Shigella, a leading cause of children's diarrhea and a common etiology of travelers' diarrhea. To develop a cross-protective Shigella vaccine, in this study, we constructed a polyvalent protein immunogen to present conserved immunodominant epitopes of Shigella invasion plasmid antigens B (IpaB) and D (IpaD), VirG, GuaB, and Shiga toxins on backbone protein IpaD, by applying an epitope- and structure-based multiepitope-fusion-antigen (MEFA) vaccinology platform, examined protein (Shigella MEFA) broad immunogenicity, and evaluated antibody function against Shigella invasion and Shiga toxin cytotoxicity but also protection against Shigella lethal challenge. Mice intramuscularly immunized with Shigella MEFA protein developed IgG responses to IpaB, IpaD, VirG, GuaB, and Shiga toxins 1 and 2; mouse sera significantly reduced invasion of Shigella sonnei, Shigella flexneri serotype 2a, 3a, or 6, Shigella boydii, and Shigella dysenteriae type 1 and neutralized cytotoxicity of Shiga toxins of Shigella and Shiga toxin-producing Escherichia coli in vitro. Moreover, mice intranasally immunized with Shigella MEFA protein (adjuvanted with dmLT) developed antigen-specific serum IgG, lung IgG and IgA, and fecal IgA antibodies, and survived from lethal pulmonary challenge with S. sonnei or S. flexneri serotype 2a, 3a, or 6. In contrast, the control mice died, became unresponsive, or lost 20% of body weight in 48 h. These results indicated that this Shigella MEFA protein is broadly immunogenic, induces broadly functional antibodies, and cross-protects against lethal pulmonary challenges with S. sonnei or S. flexneri serotypes, suggesting a potential application of this polyvalent MEFA protein in Shigella vaccine development."},"37809062":{"title":"T helper cell responses in adult diarrheal patients following natural infection with enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli are primarily of the Th17 type.","abstract":"Infection with enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli (ETEC) gives rise to IgA antibodies against both the heat labile toxin (LT) and colonization factors (CFs), which are considered to synergistically protect against ETEC diarrhea. Since the development of ETEC-specific long lived plasma cells and memory B cells is likely to be dependent on T helper (Th) cells, we investigated if natural ETEC diarrhea elicits ETEC-specific Th cells and their relation to IgA responses. Th cell subsets were analyzed in adult Bangladeshi patients hospitalized due to ETEC diarrhea by flow cytometric analysis of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) isolated from blood collected day 2, 7, 30 and 90 after hospitalization as well as in healthy controls. The LT- and CF-specific Th responses were determined by analysis of IL-17A and IFN-γ in antigen stimulated PBMC cultures using ELISA. ETEC-specific IgA secreted by circulating antibody secreting cells (plasmablasts) were analyzed by using the antibodies in lymphocyte supernatants (ALS) ELISA-based method and plasma IgA was also measured by ELISA. ETEC patients mounted significant ALS and plasma IgA responses against LTB and CFs on day 7 after hospitalization. ETEC patients had significantly elevated proportions of memory Th cells with a Th17 phenotype (CCR6+CXCR3-) in blood compared to controls, while frequencies of Th1 (CCR6-CXCR3+) or Th2 (CCR6-CXCR3-) cells were not increased. Antigen stimulation of PBMCs revealed IL-17A responses to LT, most clearly observed after stimulation with double mutant heat labile toxin (dmLT), but also with LT B subunit (LTB), and to CS6 in samples from patients with LT+ or CS6+ ETEC bacteria. Some individuals also mounted IFN-γ responses to dmLT and LTB. Levels of LTB specific IgA antibodies in ALS, but not plasma samples correlated with both IL-17A (r=0.5, p=0.02) and IFN-γ (r=0.6, p=0.01) responses to dmLT. Our results show that ETEC diarrhea induces T cell responses, which are predominantly of the Th17 type. The correlations between IL-17A and IFN-g and intestine-derived plasmablast responses support that Th responses may contribute to the development of protective IgA responses against ETEC infection. These observations provide important insights into T cell responses that need to be considered in the evaluation of advanced ETEC vaccine candidates."},"37838479":{"title":"Safety, tolerability, and immunogenicity of an oral inactivated ETEC vaccine (ETVAX®) with dmLT adjuvant in healthy adults and children in Zambia: An age descending randomised, placebo-controlled trial.","abstract":"Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli (ETEC) is an important cause of moderate to severe diarrhoea in children for which there is no licensed vaccine. We evaluated ETVAX®, an oral, inactivated ETEC vaccine containing four E. coli strains over-expressing the major colonization factors CFA/I, CS3, CS5, and CS6, a toxoid (LCTBA) and double mutant heat-labile enterotoxin (dmLT) adjuvant for safety, tolerability, and immunogenicity. A double-blind, placebo-controlled, age-descending, dose-finding trial was undertaken in 40 adults, 60 children aged 10-23 months, and 146 aged 6-9 months. Adults received one full dose of ETVAX® and children received 3 doses of either 1/4 or 1/8 dose. Safety was evaluated as solicited and unsolicited events for 7 days following vaccination. Immunogenicity was assessed by evaluation of plasma IgA antibody responses to CFA/I, CS3, CS5, CS6, and LTB, and IgG responses to LTB. Solicited adverse events were mostly mild or moderate with only 2 severe fever reports which were unrelated to the vaccine. The most common events were abdominal pain in adults (26.7 % in vaccinees vs 20 % in placebos), and fever in children aged 6-9 months (44 % vs 54  %). Dosage, number of vaccinations and decreasing age had no influence on severity or frequency of adverse events. The vaccine induced plasma IgA and IgG responses against LTB in 100 % of the adults and 80-90 % of the children. In the 6-23 months cohort, IgA responses to more than 3 vaccine antigens after 3 doses determined as ≥2-fold rise was significantly higher for 1/4 dose compared to placebo (56.7 % vs 27.2 %, p = 0.01). In the 6-9 months cohort, responses to the 1/4 dose were significantly higher than 1/8 dose after 3 rather than 2 doses. ETVAX® was safe, tolerable, and immunogenic in Zambian adults and children. The 1/4 dose induced significantly stronger IgA responses and is recommended for evaluation of protection in children. The trial is registered with the Pan African Clinical Trials Registry (PACTR Ref. 201905764389804) and a description of this clinical trial is available on: https://pactr.samrc.ac.za/Trial Design."},"37844250":{"title":"Viral nanoparticle vaccines against S100A9 reduce lung tumor seeding and metastasis.","abstract":"Metastatic cancer accounts for 90% of all cancer-related deaths and continues to be one of the toughest challenges in cancer treatment. A growing body of data indicates that S100A9, a major regulator of inflammation, plays a central role in cancer progression and metastasis, particularly in the lungs, where S100A9 forms a premetastatic niche. Thus, we developed a vaccine against S100A9 derived from plant viruses and virus-like particles. Using multiple tumor mouse models, we demonstrate the effectiveness of the S100A9 vaccine candidates in preventing tumor seeding within the lungs and outgrowth of metastatic disease. The elicited antibodies showed high specificity toward S100A9 without cross-reactivity toward S100A8, another member of the S100A family. When tested in metastatic mouse models of breast cancer and melanoma, the vaccines significantly reduced lung tumor nodules after intravenous challenge or postsurgical removal of the primary tumor. Mechanistically, the vaccines reduce the levels of S100A9 within the lungs and sera, thereby increasing the expression of immunostimulatory cytokines with antitumor function [(interleukin) IL-12 and interferonγ] while reducing levels of immunosuppressive cytokines (IL-10 and transforming growth factorβ). This also correlated with decreased myeloid-derived suppressor cell populations within the lungs. This work has wide-ranging impact, as S100A9 is overexpressed in multiple cancers and linked with poor prognosis in cancer patients. The data presented lay the foundation for the development of therapies and vaccines targeting S100A9 to prevent metastasis."},"37847244":{"title":"Diamino Allose Phosphates: Novel, Potent, and Highly Stable Toll-like Receptor 4 Agonists.","abstract":"Most known synthetic toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) agonists are carbohydrate-based lipid-A mimetics containing several fatty acyl chains, including a labile 3-O-acyl chain linked to the C-3 position of the non-reducing sugar known to undergo cleavage impacting stability and resulting in loss of activity. To overcome this inherent instability, we rationally designed a new class of chemically more stable synthetic TLR4 ligands that elicit robust innate and adaptive immune responses. This new class utilized a diamino allose phosphate (DAP) scaffold containing a nonhydrolyzable 3-amide bond instead of the classical 3-ester. Accordingly, the DAPs have significantly improved thermostability in aqueous formulations and potency relative to other known natural and synthetic TLR4 ligands. Furthermore, the DAP analogues function as potent vaccine adjuvants to enhance influenza-specific antibodies in mice and provide protection against lethal influenza virus challenges. This novel set of TLR4 ligands show promise as next-generation vaccine adjuvants and stand-alone immunomodulators."},"37863669":{"title":"Advax-CpG55.2-adjuvanted monovalent or trivalent SARS-CoV-2 recombinant spike protein vaccine protects hamsters against heterologous infection with Beta or Delta variants.","abstract":"The ongoing evolution of SARS-CoV-2 variants emphasizes the need for vaccines providing broad cross-protective immunity. This study was undertaken to assess the ability of Advax-CpG55.2 adjuvanted monovalent recombinant spike protein (Wuhan, Beta, Gamma) vaccines or a trivalent formulation to protect hamsters againstBeta or Delta virus infection. The ability of vaccines to block virus transmission to naïve co-housed animals was also assessed. In naïve hosts, the Beta variant induced higher virus loads than the Delta variant, and conversely the Delta variant caused more severe disease and was more likely to be associated with virus transmission. The trivalent vaccine formulation provided the best protection against both Beta and Delta infection and also completely prevented virus transmission. The next best performing vaccine was the original monovalent Wuhan-based vaccine. Notably, hamsters that received the monovalent Gamma spike vaccine had the highest viral loads and clinical disease of all the vaccine groups, a potential signal of antibody dependent-enhancement (ADE). These hamsters were also the most likely to transmit Delta virus to naïve recipients. In murine studies, the Gamma spike vaccine induced the highest total spike protein to RBD IgG ratio and the lowest levels of neutralizing antibody, a context that could predispose to ADE. Overall, the study results confirmed that the current SpikoGen® vaccine based on Wuhan spike protein was still able to protect against clinical disease caused by either the Beta or Delta virus variants but suggested additional protection may be obtained by combining it with extra variant spike proteins to make a multivalent formulation. This study highlights the complexity of optimizing vaccine protection against multiple SARS-CoV-2 variants and stresses the need to continue to pursue new and improved COVID-19 vaccines able to provide robust, long-lasting, and broadly cross-protective immunity against constantly evolving SARS-CoV-2 variants."},"37905891":{"title":"Preclinical efficacy of a cell division protein candidate gonococcal vaccine identified by artificial intelligence.","abstract":"Vaccines to curb the global spread of multidrug-resistant gonorrhea are urgently needed. Here, 26 vaccine candidates identified by an artificial intelligence-driven platform (Efficacy Discriminative Educated Network[EDEN]) were screened for efficacy in the mouse vaginal colonization model. Complement-dependent bactericidal activity of antisera and the EDEN protective scores both correlated positively with the reduction in overall bacterial colonization burden. NGO1549 (FtsN) and NGO0265, both involved in cell division, displayed the best activity and were selected for further development. Both antigens, when fused to create a chimeric protein, elicited bactericidal antibodies against a wide array of gonococcal isolates and significantly attenuated the duration and burden of gonococcal colonization of mouse vaginas. Protection was abrogated in mice that lacked complement C9, the last step in the formation of the membrane attack complex pore, suggesting complement-dependent bactericidal activity as a mechanistic correlate of protection of the vaccine. FtsN and NGO0265 represent promising vaccine candidates against gonorrhea."},"37913775":{"title":"Emulsion and liposome-based adjuvanted R21 vaccine formulations mediate protection against malaria through distinct immune mechanisms.","abstract":"Adjuvanted protein vaccines offer high efficacy, yet most potent adjuvants remain proprietary. Several adjuvant compounds are being developed by the Vaccine Formulation Institute in Switzerland for global open access clinical use. In the context of the R21 malaria vaccine, in a mouse challenge model, we characterize the efficacy and mechanism of action of four Vaccine Formulation Institute adjuvants: two liposomal (LQ and LMQ) and two squalene emulsion-based adjuvants (SQ and SMQ), containing QS-21 saponin (Q) and optionally a synthetic TLR4 agonist (M). Two R21 vaccine formulations, R21/LMQ and R21/SQ, offer the highest protection (81%-100%), yet they trigger different innate sensing mechanisms in macrophages with LMQ, but not SQ, activating the NLRP3 inflammasome. The resulting in vivo adaptive responses have a different TH1/TH2 balance and engage divergent innate pathways while retaining high protective efficacy. We describe how modular changes in vaccine formulation allow for the dissection of the underlying immune pathways, enabling future mechanistically informed vaccine design."},"37952003":{"title":"Enhancing breadth and durability of humoral immune responses in non-human primates with an adjuvanted group 1 influenza hemagglutinin stem antigen.","abstract":"Seasonal influenza vaccines must be updated annually and suboptimally protect against strains mismatched to the selected vaccine strains. We previously developed a subunit vaccine antigen consisting of a stabilized trimeric influenza A group 1 hemagglutinin (H1) stem protein that elicits broadly neutralizing antibodies. Here, we further optimized the stability and manufacturability of the H1 stem antigen (H1 stem v2, also known as INFLUENZA G1 mHA) and characterized its formulation and potency with different adjuvants in vitro and in animal models. The recombinant H1 stem antigen (50 µg) was administered to influenza-naïve non-human primates either with aluminum hydroxide [Al(OH)3] + NaCl, AS01B, or SLA-LSQ formulations at week 0, 8 and 34. These SLA-LSQ formulations comprised of varying ratios of the synthetic TLR4 agonist 'second generation synthetic lipid adjuvant' (SLA) with liposomal QS-21 (LSQ). A vaccine formulation with aluminum hydroxide or SLA-LSQ (starting at a 10:25 µg ratio) induced HA-specific antibodies and breadth of neutralization against a panel of influenza A group 1 pseudoviruses, comparable with vaccine formulated with AS01B, four weeks after the second immunization. A formulation with SLA-LSQ in a 5:2 μg ratio contained larger fused or aggregated liposomes and induced significantly lower humoral responses. Broadly HA stem-binding antibodies were detectable for the entire period after the second vaccine dose up to week 34, after which they were boosted by a third vaccine dose. These findings inform about potential adjuvant formulations in clinical trials with an H1 stem-based vaccine candidate."},"38113481":{"title":"Enhancing Protective Antibodies against Opioids through Antigen Display on Virus-like Particles.","abstract":"Opioid use disorder (OUD) has become a public health crisis, with recent significant increases in the number of deaths due to overdose. Vaccination can provide an attractive complementary strategy to combat OUD. A key for high vaccine efficacy is the induction of high levels of antibodies specific to the drug of abuse. Herein, a powerful immunogenic carrier, virus-like particle mutant bacteriophage Qβ (mQβ), has been investigated as a carrier of a small molecule hapten 6-AmHap mimicking heroin. The mQβ-6-AmHap conjugate was able to induce significantly higher levels of IgG antibodies against 6-AmHap than mice immunized with the corresponding tetanus toxoid-6-AmHap conjugate in head-to-head comparison studies in multiple strains of mice. The IgG antibody responses were persistent with high anti-6-AmHap titers 600 days after being immunized with mQβ-6-AmHap. The antibodies induced exhibited strong binding toward multiple heroin/morphine derivatives that have the potential to be abused, while binding weakly to medications used for OUD treatment and pain relief. Furthermore, vaccination effectively reduced the impacts of morphine on mice in both ambulation and antinociception assays, highlighting the translational potential of the mQβ-6-AmHap conjugate to mitigate the harmful effects of drugs of abuse."},"38136298":{"title":"The Defined TLR3 Agonist, Nexavant, Exhibits Anti-Cancer Efficacy and Potentiates Anti-PD-1 Antibody Therapy by Enhancing Immune Cell Infiltration.","abstract":"Nexavant was reported as an alternative to the TLR3 agonist of Poly(I:C) and its derivatives. The physicochemical properties, signaling pathways, anti-cancer effects, and mechanisms of Nexavant were investigated. The distinctive characteristics of Nexavant compared to that of Poly(I:C) were demonstrated by precise quantification, enhanced thermostability, and increased resistance to RNase A. Unlike Poly(I:C), which activates TLR3, RIG-I, and MDA5, Nexavant stimulates signaling through TLR3 and RIG-I but not through MDA5. Compared to Poly(I:C), an intratumoral Nexavant treatment led to a unique immune response, immune cell infiltration, and suppression of tumor growth in various animal cancer models. Nexavant therapy outperformed anti-PD-1 antibody treatment in all the tested models and showed a synergistic effect in combinational therapy, especially in well-defined cold tumor models. The effect was similar to that of nivolumab in a humanized mouse model. Intranasal instillation of Nexavant led to the recruitment of immune cells (NK, CD4+ T, and CD8+ T) to the lungs, suppressing lung metastasis and improving animal survival. Our study highlighted Nexavant's defined nature for clinical use and unique signaling pathways and its potential as a standalone anti-cancer agent or in combination with anti-PD-1 antibodies."},"38140192":{"title":"Co-Formulation of Recombinant Porcine IL-18 Enhances the Onset of Immune Response in a New Lawsonia intracellularis Vaccine.","abstract":"Pig is one of the most consumed meats worldwide. One of the main conditions for pig production is Porcine Enteropathy caused by Lawsonia intracellularis. Among the effects of this disease is chronic mild diarrhea, which affects the weight gain of pigs, generating economic losses. Vaccines available to prevent this condition do not have the desired effect, but this limitation can be overcome using adjuvants. Pro-inflammatory cytokines, such as interleukin 18 (IL-18), can improve an immune response, reducing the immune window of protection. In this study, recombinant porcine IL-18 was produced and expressed in Escherichia coli and Pichia pastoris. The protein's biological activity was assessed in vitro and in vivo, and we determined that the P. pastoris protein had better immunostimulatory activity. A vaccine candidate against L. intracellularis, formulated with and without IL-18, was used to determine the pigs' cellular and humoral immune responses. Animals injected with the candidate vaccine co-formulated with IL-18 showed a significant increase of Th1 immune response markers and an earlier increase of antibodies than those vaccinated without the cytokine. This suggests that IL-18 acts as an immunostimulant and vaccine adjuvant to boost the immune response against the antigens, reducing the therapeutic window of recombinant protein-based vaccines."},"38147778":{"title":"Comparative immunogenicity and safety of SpikoGen®, a recombinant SARS-CoV-2 spike protein vaccine in children and young adults: An immuno-bridging clinical trial.","abstract":"SpikoGen® is a recombinant subunit spike protein ectodomain vaccine manufactured in insect cells and formulated with the novel polysaccharide-based Advax-CpG55.2 adjuvant. This study aimed to compare the immunogenicity and safety of SpikoGen® vaccine in children, adolescents and young adults. This was a non-randomized, three-arm, open-label, parallel-group, immuno-bridging, non-inferiority trial to compare the immunogenicity and safety of a primary course of two intramuscular doses of SpikoGen® vaccine in children aged 5 to < 12 years, adolescents aged 12 to < 18 years and young adults aged 18 to 40 years. Children 5-12 years received a half dose of 12.5 μg spike protein, whereas the other groups received the full vaccine dose. Vaccine immunogenicity was evaluated via assessment of serum anti-spike and neutralizing antibodies 14 days after the second dose. Solicited adverse events were recorded for 7 days after each vaccination. Safety assessments including serious adverse events were continued through six months after the second dose in children and adolescents. Two weeks after the second dose, seroconversion rates for neutralizing antibody levels were not significantly different for children (59.50 %), adolescents (52.06 %) and adults (56.01 %). The 95 % confidence interval of the difference in seroconversion rates between children and adults was within the prespecified non-inferiority margin of 10 % (-12 % to 5 %). SpikoGen® vaccine was well tolerated in all age groups with the most common solicited adverse events being injection site pain and fatigue which were generally transient and mild. SpikoGen® vaccine was shown to be safe, well tolerated and immunogenic in children as young as 5 years of age, with non-inferior responses to those seen in adults. The Iranian FDA authorisation of SpikoGen® vaccine is now extended down to 5 years of age."},"38157402":{"title":"A Multiseason Randomized Controlled Trial of Advax-Adjuvanted Seasonal Influenza Vaccine in Participants With Chronic Disease or Older Age.","abstract":"The aim of the current study was to determine the safety and immunogenicity of trivalent inactivated influenza vaccine (TIV) alone or formulated with Advax delta inulin adjuvant in those who were older (aged >60 years) or had chronic disease. Over 4 consecutive years from 2008 through 2011, adult participants with chronic disease or >60 years of age were recruited into a randomized controlled study to assess the safety, tolerability and immunogenicity of Advax-adjuvanted TIV (TIV + Adj) versus standard TIV. The per-protocol population with ≥1 postbaseline measurement of influenza antibodies comprised 1297 participants, 447 in the TIV and 850 in the TIV + Adj) group. No safety issues were identified. Variables negatively affecting vaccine responses included obesity and diabetes mellitus. Advax adjuvant had a positive impact on anti-influenza immunoglobulin M responses and on H3N2 and B strain seropositivity as assessed by hemagglutination inhibition. TIV + Adj was safe and well tolerated in individuals with chronic disease. There is an ongoing need for research into improved influenza vaccines for high-risk populations. Australia New Zealand Clinical Trial Registry: ACTRN 12608000364370."},"38167387":{"title":"Shigella virulence protein VirG is a broadly protective antigen and vaccine candidate.","abstract":"Diarrhea caused by Shigella has been associated with high morbidity and mortality in young children worldwide. There are no licensed vaccines, and those clinically advanced have restricted coverage as they elicit serotype-specific immunity while disease is caused by multiple circulating serotypes. Our group had previously reported a close association between serum antibodies to the Shigella virulence factor VirG (or IcsA) and clinical protection in infected individuals. VirG is highly conserved among Shigella strains and appealing as a broad-spectrum vaccine candidate. In this study, we investigated the immunogenicity and protective capacity of VirG as a subunit vaccine in mice. The surface-exposed alpha (α) domain of VirG (VirGα) was produced as a recombinant protein. This region has almost identical immune reactivity to full-length VirG. Administered intramuscularly with alum, VirGα elicited robust immune responses and high protective efficacy against S. flexneri 2a and S. sonnei. Almost complete protection was afforded by VirGα given intranasally with the E. coli double mutant heat-labile toxin (dmLT). VirGα-specific antibodies recognized VirG expressed on live Shigella, and blocked Shigella adhesion and invasion to human colonic cells. These results show for the first time that VirGα is a promising cross-protective vaccine candidate to prevent Shigella infection."},"38330357":{"title":"Recombinant Full-length Plasmodium falciparum Circumsporozoite Protein-Based Vaccine Adjuvanted With Glucopyranosyl Lipid A-Liposome Quillaja saponaria 21: Results of Phase 1 Testing With Malaria Challenge.","abstract":"Malaria is preventable yet causes >600 000 deaths annually. RTS,S, the first marketed malaria vaccine, has modest efficacy, but improvements are needed for eradication. We conducted an open-label, dose escalation phase 1 study of a full-length recombinant circumsporozoite protein vaccine (rCSP) administered with adjuvant glucopyranosyl lipid A-liposome Quillaja saponaria 21 formulation (GLA-LSQ) on days 1, 29, and 85 or 1 and 490 to healthy, malaria-naive adults. The primary end points were safety and reactogenicity. The secondary end points were antibody responses and Plasmodium falciparum parasitemia after homologous controlled human malaria infection. Participants were enrolled into 4 groups receiving rCSP/GLA-LSQ: 10 µg × 3 (n = 20), 30 µg × 3 (n = 10), 60 µg × 3 (n = 10), or 60 µg × 2 (n = 9); 10 participants received 30 µg rCSP alone × 3, and there were 6 infectivity controls. Participants experienced no serious adverse events. Rates of solicited and unsolicited adverse events were similar among groups. All 26 participants who underwent controlled human malaria infection 28 days after final vaccinations developed malaria. Increasing vaccine doses induced higher immunoglobulin G titers but did not achieve previously established RTS,S benchmarks. rCSP/GLA-LSQ had favorable safety results. However, tested regimens did not induce protective immunity. Further investigation could assess whether adjuvant or schedule adjustments improve efficacy. NCT03589794."},"38368223":{"title":"Immunogenicity and protective efficacy of RipA, a peptidoglycan hydrolase, against Mycobacterium tuberculosis Beijing outbreak strains.","abstract":"Given that individuals with latent tuberculosis (TB) infection represent the major reservoir of TB infection, latency-associated antigens may be promising options for development of improved multi-antigenic TB subunit vaccine. Thus, we selected RipA, a peptidoglycan hydrolase required for efficient cell division of Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb), as vaccine candidate. We found that RipA elicited activation of dendritic cells (DCs) by induction of phenotypic maturation, increased production of inflammatory cytokines, and prompt stimulation of MAPK and NF-κB signaling pathways. In addition, RipA-treated DCs promoted Th1-polarzied immune responses of naïve CD4+ T cells with increased proliferation and activated T cells from Mtb-infected mice, which conferred enhanced control of mycobacterial growth inside macrophages. Moreover, mice immunized with RipA formulated in GLA-SE adjuvant displayed remarkable generation of Ag-specific polyfunctional CD4+ T cells in both lung and spleen. Following an either conventional or ultra-low dose aerosol challenges with 2 Mtb Beijing clinical strains, RipA/GLA-SE-immunization was not inferior to BCG by mediating protection as single Ag. Collectively, our findings highlighted that RipA could be a novel candidate as a component of multi-antigenic TB subunit vaccines."},"38400191":{"title":"IgG Subclass Switch in Volunteers Repeatedly Immunized with the Full-Length Plasmodium falciparum Merozoite Surface Protein 1 (MSP1).","abstract":"Vaccines are highly effective tools against infectious diseases and are also considered necessary in the fight against malaria. Vaccine-induced immunity is frequently mediated by antibodies. We have recently conducted a first-in-human clinical trial featuring SumayaVac-1, a malaria vaccine based on the recombinant, full-length merozoite surface protein 1 (MSP1FL) formulated with GLA-SE as an adjuvant. Vaccination with MSP1FL was safe and elicited sustainable IgG antibody titers that exceeded those observed in semi-immune populations from Africa. Moreover, IgG antibodies stimulated various Fc-mediated effector mechanisms associated with protection against malaria. However, these functionalities gradually waned. Here, we show that the initial two doses of SumayaVac-1 primarily induced the cytophilic subclasses IgG1 and IgG3. Unexpectedly, a shift in the IgG subclass composition occurred following the third and fourth vaccinations. Specifically, there was a progressive transition to IgG4 antibodies, which displayed a reduced capacity to engage in Fc-mediated effector functions and also exhibited increased avidity. In summary, our analysis of antibody responses to MSP1FL vaccination unveils a temporal shift towards noninflammatory IgG4 antibodies. These findings underscore the importance of considering the impact of IgG subclass composition on vaccine-induced immunity, particularly concerning Fc-mediated effector functions. This knowledge is pivotal in guiding the design of optimal vaccination strategies against malaria, informing decision making for future endeavors in this critical field."},"38513684":{"title":"Safety and immunogenicity of the co-administered Na-APR-1 and Na-GST-1 hookworm vaccines in school-aged children in Gabon: a randomised, controlled, observer-blind, phase 1, dose-escalation trial.","abstract":"A human hookworm vaccine is being developed to protect children against iron deficiency and anaemia associated with chronic infection with hookworms. Necator americanus aspartic protease-1 (Na-APR-1) and N americanus glutathione S-transferase-1 (Na-GST-1) are components of the blood digestion pathway critical to hookworm survival in the host. Recombinant Na-GST-1 and catalytically inactive Na-APR-1 (Na-APR-1[M74]) adsorbed to Alhydrogel were safe and immunogenic when delivered separately or co-administered to adults in phase 1 trials in non-endemic and endemic areas. We aimed to investigate the safety and immunogenicity of these antigens in healthy children in a hookworm-endemic area. This was a randomised, controlled, observer-blind, phase 1, dose-escalation trial, conducted in a clinical research centre, in 60 children aged six to ten years in Lambaréné, a hookworm-endemic region of Gabon. Healthy children (determined by clinical examination and safety laboratory testing) were randomised 4:1 to receive co-administered Na-GST-1 on Alhydrogel plus Na-APR-1(M74) on Alhydrogel and glucopyranosyl lipid A in aqueous formulation (GLA-AF), or co-administered ENGERIX-B hepatitis B vaccine (HBV) and saline placebo, injected into the deltoid of each arm. Allocation to vaccine groups was observer-masked. In each vaccine group, children were randomised 1:1 to receive intramuscular injections into each deltoid on two vaccine schedules, one at months 0, 2, and 4 or at months 0, 2, and 6. 10 μg, 30 μg, and 100 μg of each antigen were administered in the first, second, and third cohorts, respectively. The intention-to-treat population was used for safety analyses; while for immunogenicity analyses, the per-protocol population was used (children who received all scheduled vaccinations). The primary outcome was to evaluate the vaccines' safety and reactogenicity in healthy children aged between six and ten years. The secondary outcome was to measure antigen-specific serum IgG antibody levels at pre-vaccination and post-vaccination timepoints by qualified ELISAs. The trial is registered with ClinicalTrials.gov, NCT02839161, and is completed. Between Jan 23 and Oct 3, 2017, 137 children were screened, of whom 76 were eligible for this trial. 60 children were recruited, and allocated to either 10 μg of the co-administered antigens (n=8 for each injection schedule), 30 μg (n=8 for each schedule), 100 μg (n=8 for each schedule), or HBV and placebo (n=6 for each schedule) in three sequential cohorts. Co-administration of the vaccines was well tolerated; the most frequent solicited adverse events were mild-to-moderate injection-site pain, observed in up to 12 (75%) of 16 participants per vaccine group, and mild headache (12 [25%] of 48) and fever (11 [23%] of 48). No vaccine-related serious adverse events were observed. Significant anti-Na-APR-1(M74) and anti-Na-GST-1 IgG levels were induced in a dose-dependent manner, with peaks seen 14 days after the third vaccinations, regardless of dose (for Na-APR-1[M74], geometric mean levels [GML]=2295·97 arbitrary units [AU] and 726·89 AU, while for Na-GST-1, GMLs=331·2 AU and 21·4 AU for the month 0, 2, and 6 and month 0, 2, and 4 schedules, respectively). The month 0, 2, and 6 schedule induced significantly higher IgG responses to both antigens (p=0·01 and p=0·04 for Na-APR-1[M74] and Na-GST-1, respectively). Co-administration of recombinant Na-APR-1(M74) and Na-GST-1 to school-aged Gabonese children was well tolerated and induced significant IgG responses. These results justify further evaluation of this antigen combination in proof-of-concept controlled-infection and efficacy studies in hookworm-endemic areas. European Union Seventh Framework Programme."},"38670093":{"title":"Mutation-guided vaccine design: A process for developing boosting immunogens for HIV broadly neutralizing antibody induction.","abstract":"A major goal of HIV-1 vaccine development is the induction of broadly neutralizing antibodies (bnAbs). Although success has been achieved in initiating bnAb B cell lineages, design of boosting immunogens that select for bnAb B cell receptors with improbable mutations required for bnAb affinity maturation remains difficult. Here, we demonstrate a process for designing boosting immunogens for a V3-glycan bnAb B cell lineage. The immunogens induced affinity-matured antibodies by selecting for functional improbable mutations in bnAb precursor knockin mice. Moreover, we show similar success in prime and boosting with nucleoside-modified mRNA-encoded HIV-1 envelope trimer immunogens, with improved selection by mRNA immunogens of improbable mutations required for bnAb binding to key envelope glycans. These results demonstrate the ability of both protein and mRNA prime-boost immunogens for selection of rare B cell lineage intermediates with neutralizing breadth after bnAb precursor expansion, a key proof of concept and milestone toward development of an HIV-1 vaccine."},"38692824":{"title":"Safety and immunogenicity of a polyvalent DNA-protein HIV vaccine with matched Env immunogens delivered as a prime-boost regimen or coadministered in HIV-uninfected adults in the USA (HVTN 124): a phase 1, placebo-controlled, double-blind randomised controlled trial.","abstract":"An effective HIV vaccine will most likely need to have potent immunogenicity and broad cross-subtype coverage. The aim of the HIV Vaccine Trials Network (HVTN) 124 was to evaluate safety and immunogenicity of a unique polyvalent DNA-protein HIV vaccine with matching envelope (Env) immunogens. HVTN 124 was a randomised, phase 1, placebo-controlled, double-blind study, including participants who were HIV seronegative and aged 18-50 years at low risk for infection. The DNA vaccine comprised five plasmids: four copies expressing Env gp120 (clades A, B, C, and AE) and one gag p55 (clade C). The protein vaccine included four DNA vaccine-matched GLA-SE-adjuvanted recombinant gp120 proteins. Participants were enrolled across six clinical sites in the USA and were randomly assigned to placebo or one of two vaccine groups (ie, prime-boost or coadministration) in a 5:1 ratio in part A and a 7:1 ratio in part B. Vaccines were delivered via intramuscular needle injection. The primary outcomes were safety and tolerability, assessed via frequency, severity, and attributability of local and systemic reactogenicity and adverse events, laboratory safety measures, and early discontinuations. Part A evaluated safety. Part B evaluated safety and immunogenicity of two regimens: DNA prime (administered at months 0, 1, and 3) with protein boost (months 6 and 8), and DNA-protein coadministration (months 0, 1, 3, 6, and 8). All randomly assigned participants who received at least one dose were included in the safety analysis. The study is registered with ClinicalTrials.gov (NCT03409276) and is closed to new participants. Between April 19, 2018 and Feb 13, 2019, 60 participants (12 in part A [five men and seven women] and 48 in part B [21 men and 27 women]) were enrolled. All 60 participants received at least one dose, and 14 did not complete follow-up (six of 21 in the prime-boost group and eight of 21 in the coadminstration group). 11 clinical adverse events deemed by investigators as study-related occurred in seven of 48 participants in part B (eight of 21 in the prime-boost group and three of 21 in the coadministration group). Local reactogenicity in the vaccine groups was common, but the frequency and severity of reactogenicity signs or symptoms did not differ between the prime-boost and coadministration groups (eg, 20 [95%] of 21 in the prime-boost group vs 21 [100%] of 21 in the coadministration group had either local pain or tenderness of any severity [p=1·00], and seven [33%] vs nine [43%] had either erythema or induration [p=0·97]), nor did laboratory safety measures. There were no delayed-type hypersensitivity reactions or vasculitis or any severe clinical adverse events related to vaccination. The most frequently reported systemic reactogenicity symptoms in the active vaccine groups were malaise or fatigue (five [50%] of ten in part A and 17 [81%] of 21 in the prime-boost group vs 15 [71%] of 21 in the coadministration group in part B), headache (five [50%] and 18 [86%] vs 12 [57%]), and myalgia (four [40%] and 13 [62%] vs ten [48%]), mostly of mild or moderate severity. Both vaccine regimens were safe, warranting evaluation in larger trials. US National Institutes of Health and US National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases."},"38698863":{"title":"Development of a nano-emulsion based multivalent protein subunit vaccine against Pseudomonas aeruginosa.","abstract":"Pseudomonas aeruginosa (Pa) is an opportunistic bacterial pathogen responsible for severe hospital acquired infections in immunocompromised and elderly individuals. Emergence of increasingly drug resistant strains and the absence of a broad-spectrum prophylactic vaccine against both T3SA+ (type III secretion apparatus) and ExlA+/T3SA- Pa strains worsen the situation in a post-pandemic world. Thus, we formulated a candidate subunit vaccine (called ExlA/L-PaF/BECC/ME) against both Pa types. This bivalent vaccine was generated by combining the C-terminal active moiety of exolysin A (ExlA) produced by non-T3SA Pa strains with our T3SA-based vaccine platform, L-PaF, in an oil-in-water emulsion. The ExlA/L-PaF in ME (MedImmune emulsion) was then mixed with BECC438b, an engineered lipid A analogue and a TLR4 agonist. This formulation was administered intranasally (IN) to young and elderly mice to determine its potency across a diverse age-range. The elderly mice were used to mimic the infection seen in elderly humans, who are more susceptible to serious Pa disease compared to their young adult counterparts. After Pa infection, mice immunized with ExlA/L-PaF/BECC/ME displayed a T cell-mediated adaptive response while PBS-vaccinated mice experienced a rapid onset inflammatory response. Important genes and pathways were observed, which give rise to an anti-Pa immune response. Thus, this vaccine has the potential to protect aged individuals in our population from serious Pa infection."},"38832760":{"title":"Promotion of Th17 Polarized Immunity via Co-Delivery of Mincle Agonist and Tuberculosis Antigen Using Silica Nanoparticles.","abstract":"Adjuvants and immunomodulators that effectively drive a Th17-skewed immune response are not part of the standard vaccine toolkit. Vaccine adjuvants and delivery technologies that can induce Th17 or Th1/17 immunity and protection against bacterial pathogens, such as tuberculosis (TB), are urgently needed. Th17-polarized immune response can be induced using agonists that bind and activate C-type lectin receptors (CLRs) such as macrophage inducible C-type lectin (Mincle). A simple but effective strategy was developed for codelivering Mincle agonists with the recombinant Mycobacterium tuberculosis fusion antigen, M72, using tunable silica nanoparticles (SNP). Anionic bare SNP, hydrophobic phenyl-functionalized SNP (P-SNP), and cationic amine-functionalized SNP (A-SNP) of different sizes were coated with three synthetic Mincle agonists, UM-1024, UM-1052, and UM-1098, and evaluated for adjuvant activity in vitro and in vivo. The antigen and adjuvant were coadsorbed onto SNP via electrostatic and hydrophobic interactions, facilitating multivalent display and delivery to antigen presenting cells. The cationic A-SNP showed the highest coloading efficiency for the antigen and adjuvant. In addition, the UM-1098-adsorbed A-SNP formulation demonstrated slow-release kinetics in vitro, excellent stability over 12 months of storage, and strong IL-6 induction from human peripheral blood mononuclear cells. Co-adsorption of UM-1098 and M72 on A-SNP significantly improved antigen-specific humoral and Th17-polarized immune responses in vivo in BALB/c mice relative to the controls. Taken together, A-SNP is a promising platform for codelivery and proper presentation of adjuvants and antigens and provides the basis for their further development as a vaccine delivery platform for immunization against TB or other diseases for which Th17 immunity contributes to protection."},"38844494":{"title":"Vaccination with Mincle agonist UM-1098 and mycobacterial antigens induces protective Th1 and Th17 responses.","abstract":"Tuberculosis (TB), caused by Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb), is one of the top infectious killers in the world. The only licensed vaccine against TB, Bacille Calmette-Guérin (BCG), provides variable protection against pulmonary TB, especially in adults. Hence, novel TB vaccine approaches are urgently needed. Both Th1 and Th17 responses are necessary for protection against TB, yet effective adjuvants and vaccine delivery systems for inducing robust Th1 and Th17 immunity are lacking. Herein we describe a synthetic Mincle agonist, UM-1098, and a silica nanoparticle delivery system that drives Th1/Th17 responses to Mtb antigens. Stimulation of human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (hPBMCs) with UM-1098 induced high levels of Th17 polarizing cytokines IL-6, IL-1β, IL-23 as well as IL-12p70, IL-4 and TNF-α in vitro. PBMCs from both C57BL/6 and BALB/c mice responded with a similar cytokine pattern in vitro and in vivo. Importantly, intramuscular (I.M.) vaccination with UM-1098-adjuvanted TB antigen M72 resulted in significantly higher antigen-specific IFN-γ and IL-17A levels in C57BL/6 wt mice than Mincle KO mice. Vaccination of C57BL/6 wt mice with immunodominant Mtb antigens ESAT6/Ag85B or M72 resulted in predominantly Th1 and Th17 responses and induced antigen-specific serum antibodies. Notably, in a virulent Mtb challenge model, vaccination with UM-1098 adjuvanted ESAT6/Ag85B or M72 significantly reduced lung bacterial burden when compared with unvaccinated mice and protection occurred in the absence of pulmonary inflammation. These data demonstrate that the synthetic Mincle agonist UM-1098 induces strong Th1 and Th17 immunity after vaccination with Mtb antigens and provides protection against Mtb infection in mice."},"38877101":{"title":"Mastoparan-7 adjuvanted COBRA H1 and H3 hemagglutinin influenza vaccines.","abstract":"Adjuvants enhance, prolong, and modulate immune responses by vaccine antigens to maximize protective immunity and enable more effective immunization in the young and elderly. Most adjuvants are formulated with injectable vaccines. However, an intranasal route of vaccination may induce mucosal and systemic immune responses for enhancing protective immunity in individuals and be easier to administer compared to injectable vaccines. In this study, a next generation of broadly-reactive influenza hemagglutinin (HA) vaccines were developed using the Computationally Optimized Broadly Reactive Antigen (COBRA) methodology. These HA vaccines were formulated with Mastoparan 7 (M7-NH2) mast cell degranulating peptide adjuvant and administered intranasally to determine vaccine-induced seroconversion of antibodies against a panel of influenza viruses and protection following infection with H1N1 and H3N2 viruses in mice. Mice vaccinated intranasally with M7-NH2-adjuvanted COBRA HA vaccines had high HAIs against a panel of H1N1 and H3N2 influenza viruses and were protected against both morbidity and mortality, with reduced viral lung titers, following challenge with an H1N1 influenza virus. Additionally, M7-NH2 adjuvanted COBRA HA vaccines induced Th2 skewed immune responses with robust IgG and isotype antibodies in the serum and mucosal lung lavages. Overall, this intranasally delivered M7-NH2 -adjuvanted COBRA HA vaccine provides effective protection against drifted H1N1 and H3N2 viruses."},"39047117":{"title":"Adjuvantation of a SARS-CoV-2 mRNA vaccine with controlled tissue-specific expression of an mRNA encoding IL-12p70.","abstract":"Messenger RNA (mRNA) vaccines were pivotal in reducing severe acute respiratory syndrome 2 (SARS-CoV-2) infection burden, yet they have not demonstrated robust durability, especially in older adults. Here, we describe a molecular adjuvant comprising a lipid nanoparticle (LNP)-encapsulated mRNA encoding interleukin-12p70 (IL-12p70). The bioactive adjuvant was engineered with a multiorgan protection (MOP) sequence to restrict transcript expression to the intramuscular injection site. Admixing IL-12-MOP (CTX-1796) with the BNT162b2 SARS-CoV-2 vaccine increased spike protein-specific immune responses in mice. Specifically, the benefits of IL-12-MOP adjuvantation included amplified humoral and cellular immunity and increased immune durability for 1 year after vaccination in mice. An additional benefit included the restoration of immunity in aged mice to amounts comparable to those achieved in young adult animals, alongside amplification with a single immunization. Associated enhanced dendritic cell and germinal center responses were observed. Together, these data demonstrate that an LNP-encapsulated IL-12-MOP mRNA-encoded adjuvant can amplify immunogenicity independent of age, demonstrating translational potential to benefit vulnerable populations."},"39083589":{"title":"A comparative immunological assessment of multiple clinical-stage adjuvants for the R21 malaria vaccine in nonhuman primates.","abstract":"Authorization of the Matrix-M (MM)-adjuvanted R21 vaccine by three countries and its subsequent endorsement by the World Health Organization for malaria prevention in children are a milestone in the fight against malaria. Yet, our understanding of the innate and adaptive immune responses elicited by this vaccine remains limited. Here, we compared three clinically relevant adjuvants [3M-052 + aluminum hydroxide (Alum) (3M), a TLR7/8 agonist formulated in Alum; GLA-LSQ, a TLR4 agonist formulated in liposomes with QS-21; and MM, the now-approved adjuvant for R21] for their capacity to induce durable immune responses to R21 in macaques. R21 adjuvanted with 3M on a 0, 8, and 23-week schedule elicited anti-circumsporozoite antibody responses comparable in magnitude to the R21/MM vaccine administered using a 0-4-8-week regimen and persisted up to 72 weeks with a half-life of 337 days. A booster dose at 72 weeks induced a recall response similar to the R21/MM vaccination. In contrast, R21/GLA-LSQ immunization induced a lower, short-lived response at the dose used. Consistent with the durable serum antibody responses, MM and 3M induced long-lived plasma cells in the bone marrow and other tissues, including the spleen. Furthermore, whereas 3M stimulated potent and persistent antiviral transcriptional and cytokine signatures after primary and booster immunizations, MM induced enhanced expression of interferon- and TH2-related signatures more highly after the booster vaccination. Collectively, these findings provide a resource on the immune responses of three clinically relevant adjuvants with R21 and highlight the promise of 3M as another adjuvant for malarial vaccines."},"39090779":{"title":"Immunogenicity and safety of an Entamoeba histolytica adjuvanted protein vaccine candidate (LecA+GLA-3M-052 liposomes) in rhesus macaques.","abstract":"Entamoeba histolytica, the causative agent of amebiasis, is one of the top three parasitic causes of mortality worldwide. However, no vaccine exists against amebiasis. Using a lead candidate vaccine containing the LecA fragment of Gal-lectin and GLA-3M-052 liposome adjuvant, we immunized rhesus macaques via intranasal or intramuscular routes. The vaccine elicited high-avidity functional humoral responses as seen by the inhibition of amebic attachment to mammalian target cells by plasma and stool antibodies. Importantly, antigen-specific IFN-γ-secreting peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) and IgG/IgA memory B cells (BMEM) were detected in immunized animals. Furthermore, antigen-specific antibody and cellular responses were maintained for at least 8 months after the final immunization as observed by robust LecA-specific BMEM as well as IFN-γ+ PBMC responses. Overall, both intranasal and intramuscular immunizations elicited a durable and functional response in systemic and mucosal compartments, which supports advancing the LecA+GLA-3M-052 liposome vaccine candidate to clinical testing."},"3916310":{"title":"38 years' experience in scoliosis treatment.","abstract":""},"39213340":{"title":"Immunization with germ line-targeting SOSIP trimers elicits broadly neutralizing antibody precursors in infant macaques.","abstract":"Adolescents are a growing population of people living with HIV. The period between weaning and sexual debut presents a low-risk window for HIV acquisition, making early childhood an ideal time for implementing an immunization regimen. Because the elicitation of broadly neutralizing antibodies (bnAbs) is critical for an effective HIV vaccine, our goal was to assess the ability of a bnAb B cell lineage-designed HIV envelope SOSIP (protein stabilized by a disulfide bond between gp120-gp41-named \"SOS\"-and an isoleucine-to-proline point mutation-named \"IP\"-at residue 559) to induce precursor CD4 binding site (CD4bs)-targeting bnAbs in early life. Infant rhesus macaques received either a BG505 SOSIP, based on the infant BG505 transmitted/founder virus, or the CD4bs germ line-targeting BG505 SOSIP GT1.1 (n = 5 per group). Although both strategies induced durable, high-magnitude plasma autologous virus neutralization responses, only GT1.1-immunized infants (n = 3 of 5) exhibited VRC01-like CD4bs bnAb precursor development. Thus, a multidose immunization regimen with bnAb lineage-designed SOSIPs shows promise for inducing early B cell responses with the potential to mature into protective HIV bnAbs before sexual debut."},"39235529":{"title":"Use of 3M-052-AF with Alum adjuvant in HIV trimer vaccine induces human autologous neutralizing antibodies.","abstract":"Stabilized trimers preserving the native-like HIV envelope structure may be key components of a preventive HIV vaccine regimen to induce broadly neutralizing antibodies (bnAbs). We evaluated trimeric BG505 SOSIP.664 gp140 formulated with a novel TLR7/8 signaling adjuvant, 3M-052-AF/Alum, for safety, adjuvant dose-finding, and immunogenicity in a first-in-healthy adult (n = 17), randomized, and placebo-controlled trial (HVTN 137A). The vaccine regimen appeared safe. Robust, trimer-specific antibody, and B cell and CD4+ T cell responses emerged after vaccination. Five vaccinees developed serum autologous tier 2 nAbs (ID50 titer, 1:28-1:8647) after two to three doses targeting C3/V5 and/or V1/V2/V3 Env regions by electron microscopy and mutated pseudovirus-based neutralization analyses. Trimer-specific, B cell-derived monoclonal antibody activities confirmed these results and showed weak heterologous neutralization in the strongest responder. Our findings demonstrate the clinical utility of the 3M-052-AF/Alum adjuvant and support further improvements of trimer-based Env immunogens to focus responses on multiple broad nAb epitopes."},"39273405":{"title":"Post-Hoc Analysis of Potential Correlates of Protection of a Recombinant SARS-CoV-2 Spike Protein Extracellular Domain Vaccine Formulated with Advax-CpG55.2-Adjuvant.","abstract":"SpikoGen® vaccine is a subunit COVID-19 vaccine composed of an insect cell expressed recombinant spike protein extracellular domain formulated with Advax-CpG55.2™ adjuvant. A randomized double-blind, placebo-controlled Phase II clinical trial was conducted in 400 adult subjects who were randomized 3:1 to receive two intramuscular doses three weeks apart of either SpikoGen® vaccine 25 μg or saline placebo, as previously reported. This study reports a post hoc analysis of the trial data to explore potential immune correlates of SpikoGen® vaccine protection. A range of humoral markers collected pre- and post-vaccination, including spike- and RBD-binding IgG and IgA, surrogate (sVNT), and conventional (cVNT) virus neutralization tests were compared between participants who remained infection-free or got infected over three months of follow-up. From 2 weeks after the second vaccine dose, 21 participants were diagnosed with SARS-CoV-2 infection, 13 (4.2%) in the SpikoGen® group and 8 (9%) in the placebo group. Those in the vaccinated group who experienced breakthrough infections had significantly lower sVNT titers (GMT 5.75 μg/mL, 95% CI; 3.72-8.91) two weeks after the second dose (day 35) than those who did not get infected (GMT 21.06 μg/mL, 95% CI; 16.57-26.76). Conversely, those who did not develop SARS-CoV-2 infection during follow-up had significantly higher baseline sVNT, cVNT, spike-binding IgG and IgA, and RBD-binding IgG, consistent with a past SARS-CoV-2 infection. SpikoGen® further reduced the risk of re-infection (OR 0.29) in baseline seropositive (previously infected) as well as baseline seronegative participants. This indicates that while SpikoGen vaccine is protective in seronegative individuals, those with hybrid immunity have the most robust protection."},"39349494":{"title":"Effects of age and gender on immunogenicity and reactogenicity of SpikoGen recombinant spike protein vaccine: a post-hoc analysis.","abstract":"SpikoGen® COVID-19 vaccine is based on the spike protein extracellular domain of the ancestral Wuhan-Hu-1 strain modified by removal of the furin cleavage site and addition of stabilising mutations expressed as a recombinant protein in insect cells. It is formulated with Advax-CpG55.2™ adjuvant to ensure optimal immunogenicity. In this study, data from several SpikoGen® clinical trials was retrospectively analysed to assess for any effect of gender or age on seroconversion, neutralizing antibody levels or the incidence of adverse events. Following the 1st dose, older age was associated with a reduced rate of fatigue (RR 0.97, p < 0.001), headache (RR 0.98, p = 0.034) and myalgia (RR 0.97, p=0.016), following the 2nd dose, the rate of fatigue (RR 0.98, p = 0.017) but following the 3rd dose no effect of age on adverse events was evident. Similarly, following the 1st dose, men reported a 19% lower incidence of fatigue, 36% lower incidence of headache and 28% lower incidence of myalgia when compared to women. Interestingly, there was no relationship between age or gender and serum neutralizing antibody levels, although after each vaccine dose there was a consistent trend to women having a higher seroconversion rate. There was no correlation between neutralizing antibody levels and adverse events. Unlike what is seen with mRNA vaccines, reactogenicity trended lower after each subsequent SpikoGen® dose. Overall, SpikoGen® exhibited positive immunogenicity and low reactogenicity, indicating that a low incidence of adverse events does not equate to poor immunogenicity. SpikoGen® remains a promising protein-based vaccine platform for COVID-19 protection."},"39381003":{"title":"Co-regulation of innate and adaptive immune responses induced by ID93+GLA-SE vaccination in humans.","abstract":"Development of an effective vaccine against tuberculosis is a critical step towards reducing the global burden of disease. A therapeutic vaccine might also reduce the high rate of TB recurrence and help address the challenges of drug-resistant strains. ID93+GLA-SE is a candidate subunit vaccine that will soon be evaluated in a phase 2b efficacy trial for prevention of recurrent TB among patients undergoing TB treatment. ID93+GLA-SE vaccination was shown to elicit robust CD4+ T cell and IgG antibody responses among recently treated TB patients in the TBVPX-203 Phase 2a study (NCT02465216), but the mechanisms underlying these responses are not well understood. In this study we used specimens from TBVPX-203 participants to describe the changes in peripheral blood gene expression that occur after ID93+GLA-SE vaccination. Analyses revealed several distinct modules of co-varying genes that were either up- or down-regulated after vaccination, including genes associated with innate immune pathways at 3 days post-vaccination and genes associated with lymphocyte expansion and B cell activation at 7 days post-vaccination. Notably, the regulation of these gene modules was affected by the dose schedule and by participant sex, and early innate gene signatures were correlated with the ID93-specific CD4+ T cell response. The results provide insight into the complex interplay of the innate and adaptive arms of the immune system in developing responses to vaccination with ID93+GLA-SE and demonstrate how dosing and schedule can affect vaccine responses."},"39539030":{"title":"A randomized clinical trial of the impact of melatonin on influenza vaccine: Outcomes from the melatonin and vaccine response immunity and chronobiology study (MAVRICS).","abstract":"Vaccine immunogenicity is affected by a variety of factors. Melatonin has been reported to affect immune responses to vaccines and infection. This was a randomized open-label trial - in which adults scheduled to receive the influenza vaccine were randomized to 5 mg melatonin or control to evaluate the effect of post-vaccination melatonin on humoral (hemagglutination-inhibition assays, HAI) and cellular (FluoroSpot) vaccine-specific cytokine responses 14-21 days post-vaccination. A total of 108 participants (melatonin treatment group: 53; control group: 55) completed the study. The groups were similar in baseline characteristics, including sleep as measured by the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index. Seroconversion rates or geometric mean fold rises (GMFR) in HAI titers did not vary by treatment group. There were also no statistically significant differences between pre- and post-vaccination levels of interferon gamma (IFN-γ) or granzyme B (GzB) by treatment; however, there was a significantly higher fold rise in the double secretor (IFN-γ + GzB) peripheral blood mononuclear cells for influenza vaccine in subjects taking daily melatonin (GMFR 1.7; 95% CI 1.3, 2.3) compared to those who did not (GMFR 0.9; 95% CI 0.7, 1.1) (p < .001). Daily melatonin for 14 days post-influenza vaccination significantly increased the cellular co-expression of IFN-γ + GzB; however, there were no other differences in the cellular or humoral responses. Future studies of the potential utility of melatonin for enhancing vaccine response with larger sample sizes may help elucidate candidate mechanisms for these limited effects, including any interactions with the circadian system."},"39671174":{"title":"HVTN 123: A Phase 1, Randomized Trial Comparing Safety and Immunogenicity of CH505TF gp120 Produced by Stably and Transiently Transfected Cell Lines.","abstract":"Utilizing transiently transfected cell lines could significantly reduce manufacturing timelines for protein subunit vaccines. This trial compared safety and immunogenicity of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) envelope CH505TF gp120 vaccines produced by upstream stable and transient transfection (each admixed with GLA-SE adjuvant, a TL4 agonist). Both vaccines were safe and well tolerated. Serum IgG binding antibody response rates 2 weeks after final injection were 92% in the stable group and 93% in the transient group (P = 1.000). Neutralization response rates against CH505.w4.3 were also equivalent (92% vs 100%, P = .291). These data support transient transfection as an available tool for accelerating HIV vaccine testing and iteration. Clinical Trials Registration. NCT03856996."},"39737197":{"title":"Optimizing immunogenicity and product presentation of a SARS-CoV-2 subunit vaccine composition: effects of delivery route, heterologous regimens with self-amplifying RNA vaccines, and lyophilization.","abstract":"Dozens of vaccines have been approved or authorized internationally in response to the ongoing SARS-CoV-2 pandemic, covering a range of modalities and routes of delivery. For example, mucosal delivery of vaccines via the intranasal (i.n.) route has been shown to improve protective mucosal responses in comparison to intramuscular (i.m.) delivery. As we gain knowledge of the limitations of existing vaccines, it is of interest to understand if changes in product presentation or combinations of multiple vaccine modalities can further improve immunological outcomes. We investigated a commercial-stage SARS-CoV-2 receptor binding domain (RBD) antigen adjuvanted with a clinical-stage TLR-7/8 agonist (3M-052) formulated on aluminum oxyhydroxide (Alum). In a murine immunogenicity model, we compared i.n. and i.m. dosing of the RBD-3M-052-Alum vaccine. We measured the magnitude of antibody responses in serum and lungs, the antibody-secreting cell populations in bone marrow, and antigen-specific cytokine-secreting splenocyte populations. Similarly, we compared different heterologous and homologous prime-boost regimens using the RBD-3M-052-Alum vaccine and a clinical-stage self-amplifying RNA (saRNA) vaccine formulated on a nanostructured lipid carrier (NLC) using the i.m. route alone. Finally, we developed a lyophilized presentation of the RBD-3M-052-Alum vaccine and compared it to the liquid presentation and a heterologous regimen including a previously characterized lyophilized form of the saRNA-NLC vaccine. We demonstrate that i.n. dosing of the RBD-3M-052-Alum vaccine increased IgA titers in the lung by more than 1.5 logs, but induced serum IgG titers 0.8 logs lower, in comparison to i.m. dosing of the same vaccine. We also show that the homologous prime-boost RBD-3M-052-Alum regimen led to the highest serum IgG and bronchial IgA titers, whereas the homologous saRNA-NLC regimen led to the highest splenocyte interferon-γ response. We found that priming with the saRNA-NLC vaccine and boosting with the RBD-3M-052-Alum vaccine led to the most desirable immune outcome of all regimens tested. Finally, we show that the lyophilized RBD-3M-052-Alum vaccine retained its immunological characteristics. Our results demonstrate that the route of delivery and the use of heterologous regimens each separately impacts the resulting immune profile, and confirm that multi-product vaccine regimens can be developed with stabilized presentations in mind."},"39798433":{"title":"Immunogenicity in mice and non-human primates of an Advax-CpG55.2-adjuvanted recombinant hemagglutinin seasonal quadrivalent influenza vaccine.","abstract":"There is a need to improve the effectiveness of seasonal influenza vaccines. Influenza vaccines based on recombinant hemagglutinin offer advantages over traditional approaches. We asked whether Advax-CpG55.2 or alum-CpG55.2 adjuvants could enhance the immunogenicity of a quadrivalent influenza vaccine (QIV) comprising recombinant full-length native hemagglutinins (HA0) produced in Sf9 insect cells. Adult C57BL/6 mice were immunized intramuscularly twice 10 days apart with 4 μg of QIV alone or with adjuvant. QIV induced only modest levels of anti-influenza IgG1 whereas the adjuvanted formulations induced significantly higher levels of IgG1 plus IgG2c. When challenged with the H1N1pdm strain, A/South Australia/348/2023, adjuvanted QIV immunized mice showed minimal illness, whereas QIV alone immunized mice all succumbed to infection. Advax-CpG55.2 adjuvanted QIV similarly increased influenza-specific IgG against all four vaccine strains in Cynomolgus macaques. Adjuvanted recombinant hemagglutinin approaches offer a promising alternative to existing seasonal influenza vaccine platforms."},"39966390":{"title":"Enhanced immunogenicity of a Clostridioides difficile TcdB vaccine adjuvanted with a synthetic dual-TLR ligand adjuvant.","abstract":"We report a comprehensive evaluation of the toxin B (TcdB) vaccine adjuvanted with a dual Toll-like receptor ligand liposome adjuvant for Clostridioides difficile infection (CDI). The vaccine completely protected mice from a lethal infection. Compared to alum adjuvanted TcdB, it generated functionally superior systemic antibodies and supported strong memory B cell and gut IgA responses. This pharmaceutically acceptable adjuvant platform holds promise for developing a next-generation CDI vaccine."},"40006680":{"title":"A Pentavalent HIV-1 Subtype C Vaccine Containing Computationally Selected gp120 Strains Improves the Breadth of V1V2 Region Responses.","abstract":"HIV-1 envelope (Env) variable loops 1 and 2 (V1V2) directed non-neutralizing antibodies were a correlate of decreased transmission risk in the RV144 vaccine trial. Thus, the elicitation and breadth of antibody responses against the V1V2 of HIV-1 Env are important considerations for HIV-1 vaccine candidates. The V1V2 region's highly variable nature and the extensive diversity of subtype C HIV-1 Envelopes (Envs) make the V1V2 response breadth a high priority for HIV-1 vaccine regimens aiming for V1V2-mediated protection in Southern Africa. Here, we determined whether the breadth of the anti-V1V2 vaccine response can be broadened by including HIV-1 Env strains computationally designed to enhance the coverage of subtype C V1V2 sequence diversity. Three subtype C Env strains were selected to maximize antibody binding coverage while complementing subtype C vaccine gp120s that were given in human clinical trials in South Africa, as well as to improve epitope accessibility. Humoral immunogenicity of a novel trivalent gp120 vaccine immunogen, a bivalent gp120 boost already in clinical trials (1086C and TV1), and a pentavalent (all five gp120s combined) were evaluated in a preclinical immunization study in guinea pigs. The pentavalent combination was further evaluated with alum versus glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvants formulated in squalene-in-water emulsion (GLA-SE) adjuvants in non-human primates. The breadth of the anti-V1V2 response was assessed using an array of cross-subtype variable loops 1&2 (V1V2) scaffold proteins and linear V2 peptides. The breadth of the IgG response against V1V2 antigens of the trivalent and pentavalent groups was comparable, and both were greater than the breadth of the bivalent group. Linear epitope mapping showed that two linear epitopes in V2 were targeted by the vaccinated animals: the V2 hotspot focused at 169K that potentially correlated with decreased HIV-1 risk in RV144 and the V2.2 site (179LDV/I181) that is part of the integrin α4β7 binding site. The bivalent vaccine elicited a significantly higher magnitude of binding to the V2 hotspot compared to the trivalent vaccine whereas the trivalent vaccine elicited significantly higher binding to the V2.2 epitope compared to the bivalent vaccine, while the pentavalent recognized both regions. These results demonstrate that the three new computationally selected subtype C Envs successfully complemented 1086C and TV1 for broader V1V2 antibody responses, and, in concert with adjuvants that stimulate V1V2 responses, can be considered as part of a rationale immunogen design to improve V1V2 IgG coverage in future vaccine trials in South Africa."},"40092447":{"title":"An intranasal adjuvanted, recombinant influenza A/H5 vaccine candidate induces broad priming against diverse influenza A/H5N1 virus clades in a phase I randomized trial in healthy adults.","abstract":"We conducted a randomized, controlled phase I trial (NCT05397119) of a novel adjuvanted recombinant influenza A/H5 (A/Indonesia/05/2005, clade 2.1) hemagglutinin vaccine, administered intranasally in two doses 28 days apart at three antigen levels. Control groups received unadjuvanted recombinant H5 or formulation buffer placebo. Six months later, participants received a heterologous unadjuvanted inactivated influenza A/H5N1 (A/Vietnam/1203/2004, clade 1) vaccine intramuscularly. All vaccines were safe and well tolerated. After the primary intranasal series, serum hemagglutination inhibition and microneutralization responses were minimal. Increases in mucosal and serum IgG/IgA, serum surface plasmon resonance antibody binding, memory B cell and CD4 T cell activity, and antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity were observed only in recipients primed intranasally with adjuvanted H5 vaccine. Following the inactivated H5N1 boost, robust responses across all immune assays, as well as microneutralization responses against diverse H5N1 clades (including currently circulating clade 2.3.4.4b), occurred in adjuvanted vaccine recipients, demonstrating successful priming and broad responses."},"40178906":{"title":"Safety and implementation of phase I randomized GLA-SE-adjuvanted CH505TF gp120 HIV vaccine trial in newborns.","abstract":"BACKGROUNDThe neonatal immune system is uniquely poised to generate broadly neutralizing antibodies (bnAbs), and thus infants are ideal for evaluating HIV vaccine candidates. We present the design and safety of a new-in-infants glucopyranosyl lipid A-stable emulsion (GLA-SE) adjuvant admixed with a first-in-infant CH505 transmitter-founder (CH505TF) gp120 immunogen designed to induce precursors for bnAbs against HIV.METHODSHIV Vaccine Trials Network 135 is a phase I randomized, placebo-controlled trial of CH505TF plus GLA-SE or placebo. Healthy infants aged ≤5 days, born to mothers living with HIV but HIV nucleic acid-negative at birth, were randomized to 5 doses of CH505TF plus GLA-SE or placebo at birth and 8, 16, 32, and 54 weeks.RESULTSThirty-eight infants (median age 4 days; interquartile range 4-4.75 days) were enrolled November 2020 to January 2022. Among 28 infants assigned to receive CH505TF plus GLA-SE and 10 assigned to receive placebo, most completed the 5-dose immunization series (32/38) and follow-up (35/38). Solicited local and systemic reactions were more frequent in vaccine (8, 28.6% local; 16, 57.1% systemic) versus placebo recipients (1, 10% local, P = 0.25; 4, 40.0% systemic, P = 0.38). All events were grade 1 except 2 grade 2 events (pain, lethargy). Serious vaccine-related adverse events were not recorded.CONCLUSIONThis study illustrates the feasibility of conducting trials of new-in-infants adjuvanted HIV vaccines in HIV-exposed infants receiving standard infant vaccinations. The safety profile of the CH505TF plus GLA-SE vaccine was reassuring.TRIAL REGISTRATIONClinicalTrials.gov NCT04607408.FUNDINGNational Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases of the NIH under grants UM1AI068614, UM1AI068635, and UM1AI068618."},"40211539":{"title":"Intranasal replicon SARS-CoV-2 vaccine produces protective respiratory and systemic immunity and prevents viral transmission.","abstract":"While mRNA vaccines have been effective in combating SARS-CoV-2, the waning of vaccine-induced antibody responses and lack of vaccine-induced respiratory tract immunity contribute to ongoing infection and transmission. In this work, we compare and contrast intranasal (i.n.) and intramuscular (i.m.) administration of a SARS-CoV-2 replicon vaccine delivered by a nanostructured lipid carrier (NLC). Both i.m. and i.n. vaccines induce potent systemic serum neutralizing antibodies, bone marrow-resident immunoglobulin G-secreting cells, and splenic T cell responses. The i.n. vaccine additionally induces robust respiratory mucosal immune responses, including SARS-CoV-2-reactive lung-resident memory T cell populations. As a booster following previous i.m. vaccination, the i.n. vaccine also elicits the development of mucosal virus-specific T cells. Both the i.m.- and i.n.-administered vaccines durably protect hamsters from infection-associated morbidity upon viral challenge, significantly reducing viral loads and preventing challenged hamsters from transmitting virus to naive cagemates. This replicon-NLC vaccine's potent systemic immunogenicity, and additional mucosal immunogenicity when delivered i.n., may be key for combating SARS-CoV-2 and other respiratory pathogens."},"40215318":{"title":"Generation of an inflammatory niche in a hydrogel depot through recruitment of key immune cells improves efficacy of mRNA vaccines.","abstract":"Messenger RNA (mRNA) delivered in lipid nanoparticles (LNPs) rose to the forefront of vaccine candidates during the COVID-19 pandemic due to scalability, adaptability, and potency. Yet, there remain critical areas for improvements of these vaccines in durability and breadth of humoral responses. In this work, we explore a modular strategy to target mRNA/LNPs to antigen-presenting cells with an injectable polymer-nanoparticle (PNP) hydrogel technology, which recruits key immune cells and forms an immunological niche in vivo. We characterize this niche on a single-cell level and find it is highly tunable through incorporation of adjuvants like MPLAs and 3M-052. Delivering commercially available severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 mRNA vaccines in PNP hydrogels improves the durability and quality of germinal center reactions, and the magnitude, breadth, and durability of humoral responses. The tunable immune niche formed within PNP hydrogels effectively skews immune responses based on encapsulated adjuvants, creating opportunities to precisely modulate mRNA/LNP vaccines for various indications from infectious diseases to cancers."},"40266229":{"title":"The Sm14+GLA-SE Recombinant Vaccine Against Schistosoma mansoni and S. haematobium in Adults and School Children: Phase II Clinical Trials in West Africa.","abstract":"Following previous successful Phase I clinical trials conducted in men and women in a non-endemic area for schistosomiasis in Brazil, the Sm14 vaccine was evaluated in an endemic region in Senegal. We report successful clinical trials in adults (Phase IIa) and school children (Phase IIb), respectively, of a Schistosoma mansoni 14 kDa fatty acid-binding protein (Sm14) vaccine + a glucopyranosyl lipid A (GLA-SE) adjuvant. Participants were evaluated based on clinical assessments, laboratory tests (including hematologic and biochemical analyses of renal and hepatic functions), and immunological parameters (humoral and cellular responses) up to 12 months after the first vaccination dose in the Phase IIa trial and after 120 days in the Phase IIb trial. The results showed strong immunogenic responses and good tolerance in both adults and children, with no major adverse effects. Importantly, significant increases in Sm14-specific total IgG (IgG1 and IgG3) were observed as early as 30 days after the first vaccination, with high titres remaining at least 120 days afterwards. Sm14-specific total IgG serum levels were also significantly enhanced in adults and in both infected and non-infected, vaccinated children and elicited robust cytokine responses with increased TNFα, IFN-γ, and IL-2 profiles. Overall, the Sm14+GLA-SE vaccine is safe and highly immunogenic, with a clearly protective potential against schistosomiasis, supporting progression to the next Phase III clinical trials."},"40273588":{"title":"Advax®-adjuvanted inactivated influenza vaccine provides accelerated protection of mice via early induction of an influenza-specific IgM response.","abstract":"It would be advantageous if a strategy could be found to accelerate vaccine induction of anti-influenza adaptive immunity to more rapidly protect frontline workers and other vulnerable individuals during virus outbreaks. This study asked whether Advax® delta inulin adjuvant could accelerate the kinetics of protection afforded by a single dose of inactivated influenza vaccine (IIV) in two different strains of mice. A single dose of Advax®-adjuvanted IIV, but not IIV alone, gave complete protection if given 7 or 3 days before, and even when given at the same time as virus challenge (same day protection). Co-administration of both IIV and Advax® were critical to obtaining robust same day protection which was not seen with the individual vaccine components. Same day protection was lost in B-cell deficient μMT mice but was still evident in T cell-depleted mice, confirming its dependence on humoral but not T cell immunity. Day 6 post-challenge serum from protected mice demonstrated elevated influenza-binding IgM which had hemagglutination inhibition activity not seen in mice that received IIV alone. This confirmed that Advax® accelerated the kinetics of anti-influenza IgM production in response to IIV. Influenza protection could be transferred to naïve mice using day 6 sera or purified IgM from Advax®-adjuvanted IIV-immunised mice. Draining lymph nodes from protected mice showed increased CD138+ B220+ migratory and IgM+ extrafollicular, antibody secreting cells. These results show Advax® adjuvant accelerates the kinetics of anti-influenza IgM production in response to IIV thereby enabling the vaccine to protect against an infection acquired at the same time as the immunisation. While further studies are required to confirm that this ability to accelerate humoral immune kinetics extends to other species, including non-human primates, the phenomenon of adjuvant-accelerated IIV protection offers promise as a strategy for development of faster-acting vaccines."},"40364846":{"title":"A bivalent self-amplifying RNA vaccine against yellow fever and Zika viruses.","abstract":"Yellow fever (YFV) and Zika (ZIKV) viruses cause significant morbidity and mortality, despite the existence of an approved YFV vaccine and the development of multiple ZIKV vaccine candidates to date. New technologies may improve access to vaccines against these pathogens. We previously described a nanostructured lipid carrier (NLC)-delivered self-amplifying RNA (saRNA) vaccine platform with excellent thermostability and immunogenicity, appropriate for prevention of tropical infectious diseases. YFV and ZIKV prM-E antigen-expressing saRNA constructs were created using a TC-83 strain Venezuelan equine encephalitis virus-based replicon and complexed with NLC by simple mixing. Monovalent and bivalent vaccine formulations were injected intramuscularly into C57BL/6 mice and Syrian golden hamsters, and the magnitude, durability, and protective efficacy of the resulting immune responses were then characterized. Monovalent vaccines established durable neutralizing antibody responses to their respective flaviviral targets, with little evidence of cross-neutralization. Both vaccines additionally elicited robust antigen-reactive CD4+ and CD8+ T cell populations. Notably, humoral responses to YFV saRNA-NLC vaccination were comparable to those in YF-17D-vaccinated animals. Bivalent formulations established humoral and cellular responses against both viral targets, commensurate to those established by monovalent vaccines, without evidence of saRNA interference or immune competition. Finally, both monovalent and bivalent vaccines completely protected mice and hamsters against lethal ZIKV and YFV challenge. We present a bivalent saRNA-NLC vaccine against YFV and ZIKV capable of inducing robust and efficacious neutralizing antibody and cellular immune responses against both viruses. These data support the development of other multivalent saRNA-based vaccines against infectious diseases."},"40393528":{"title":"Broadly active intranasal influenza vaccine with a nanocomplex particulate adjuvant targeting mast cells and toll-like receptor 9.","abstract":"Flumist is the only FDA-approved intranasal influenza vaccine. Although it has recently been approved for at-home use, it has significant limitations. These include reduced effectiveness in generating a protective immune response in patients with extensive influenza exposure, safety concerns due to its live attenuated virus formulation, and reduced efficacy due to viral drift/shift. To address this limitation, we have developed a nanocomplex comprised of a mast cell (MC) agonist and toll-like receptor 9 (TLR9) ligand to adjuvant a broadly acting influenza antigen. The newly reported MC agonist was identified by screening mastoparan-7 analogs for MC degranulation activity, which led to a more active peptide analog, MP12W. Positively charged MP12W spontaneously forms nanoparticulate complexes (NPs) with CpG 1826 that were then used to intranasally vaccinate mice with a computationally optimized broadly reactive antigen (COBRA) hemagglutinin (HA) protein. The NPs were further optimized by substituting CpG 1826 with CpG 55.2, a TLR-9 agonist identified by machine learning to be more active in humans. MP12W-CpG 1826 NPs showed an increased pro-inflammatory response and decreased cytotoxicity in vitro compared to M7 complexes, translating into a safer profile in a model of increased hypersensitivity, collaborative cross mice 027 (CC027). Intranasal vaccination with this complex and broadly reactive HA resulted in higher mucosal antibody concentration and increased cytokine production with antigen recall. These responses were enhanced with MP12W-CpG 55.2 NP vaccination. MP12W-CpG NPs provided similar protection in an influenza challenge model. This study demonstrates the potential of this novel intranasal nanocomplex for vaccination."},"40414893":{"title":"Adjunctive beneficial effect of c-di-GMP, a STING agonist, in enhancing protective efficacy of TLR4-adjuvanted tuberculosis subunit vaccine formulations.","abstract":"Effective subunit vaccine development requires selecting appropriate adjuvant formulations to trigger desired adaptive immune responses. This study explores the immunogenicity and tuberculosis (TB) vaccine potential of antigens (Ags) combined with Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) adjuvants and a stimulator of interferon genes (STING) agonist. In this work, we investigated the combination of Ags with TLR4 adjuvants (monophosphoryl lipid A / dimethyldioctadecylammonium bromide; MPL/DDA or glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant-stable emulsion; GLA-SE) and a STING agonist, c-di-GMP (CDG). Mice were immunized three times by intramuscular injections at 3-week intervals. The effects of integrating Ags in these adjuvant formulations on the immune response were evaluated, focusing on the generation of Th1-biased, polyfunctional Ag-specific CD4+ T cells and their localization in the lung and spleen. To assess protection, immunized mice were aerogenically challenged with either conventional or ultra-low doses of Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) 4 weeks after the last immunization. Subsequently, bacterial load and pulmonary inflammation were assessed. Integrating ESAT6 Ag in TLR4 and CDG adjuvant formulations remarkably boosted Th1-biased, polyfunctional ESAT6-specific CD4+ T cells in the lungs and spleen, providing durable protection against Mtb infection. The inclusion of CDG promoted mucosal localization of ESAT6-specific CD4+ T cells resembling resident memory phenotypes in the lung parenchyma and increased Ag-specific CD4+ T cells in lung vasculature. Immunization with another vaccine Ag candidate, Ag85B, in GLA-SE plus CDG similarly increased Ag85B-specific CD4+ T cells in the spleen and both lung compartments. Following ultra-low dose Mtb challenge, ESAT6 or Ag85B/GLA-SE/CDG immunizations significantly reduced bacterial loads compared to non-, Bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG)-, and ESAT6 or Ag85B/GLA-SE-immunized groups. Importantly, the inclusion of CDG decreased killer cell lectin-like receptor subfamily G member 1 (KLRG1) expression among Ag-specific CD4+ T cells in the lung, correlating with enhanced lung-homing evidenced by expanded lung parenchyma Ag-specific CD4+ T cells, including less-differentiated Th1 cells. This study highlights that CDG, when used in combination with TLR4 adjuvants, enhances long-term protective immunity, offering a promising strategy for subunit TB vaccine development."},"40436220":{"title":"A spray dried replicon vaccine platform for pandemic response.","abstract":"The recent COVID-19 pandemic, as well as the threat of a global pandemic caused by H5N1 avian influenza virus, has highlighted the need for the development of thermostable vaccines that can be manufactured and distributed rapidly to combat the next global pandemic. To address this need, we previously developed a replicon vaccine platform that utilizes a nanostructured lipid carrier (NLC) to protect and efficiently deliver antigen-expressing replicon molecules in vivo. The replicon-NLC vaccine platform uses readily sourced components and can be rapidly manufactured at scale with the potential for stockpiling, thus enhancing pandemic preparedness. Spray drying is a promising method of vaccine desiccation with reduced costs and increased scale-up capabilities compared to lyophilization. As proof of concept, we demonstrate for the first time the successful spray drying of a replicon-NLC vaccine complex designed to protect against H5N1 avian influenza A virus to enhance its long-term thermostability while maintaining vaccine immunogenicity in an in vivo mouse model. Several glass-forming disaccharide excipients were screened for formulation and process compatibility under low-temperature spray drying conditions, and it was determined that a suitable shell-forming excipient, L-leucine, was necessary to prevent excessive accumulation of replicon-NLC vaccine complexes on the dry powder surface and a subsequent loss in process yield. The spray dried replicon-NLC vaccine powders were chemically stable for 1 month of storage at 40 °C. Immunogenicity of the spray dried drug product was also well maintained for at least 3 months of storage at 4 °C when administered intramuscularly into C57BL/6 mice as a reconstituted liquid. Finally, we demonstrate the ability to precisely control the aerodynamic particle size of the spray dried vaccine product to generate dry powders that are theoretically suitable for nasal or pulmonary delivery without reconstitution. This work establishes the feasibility of spray drying a thermostable replicon-NLC vaccine for rapid pandemic response."},"40582987":{"title":"Delta inulin alone or combined with CpG oligonucleotide enhances antibody-dependent influenza vaccine protection in mice and nonhuman primate newborns.","abstract":"Newborns represent over half of hospitalized pediatric influenza infection cases, with current influenza vaccines not effective in the first months of life. Advax® (delta inulin) is a polysaccharide particle that targets DC-SIGN, whereas CpG55.2 is a potent murine and human toll-like receptor (TLR)-9 agonist. This study asked whether Advax or CpG alone, or combined, could enhance the protection of an inactivated influenza virus vaccine (IIV) in newborns. One-day-old mouse pups were immunized subcutaneously with a single dose of IIV alone or with Advax or Advax-CpG55.2 adjuvants and then, at 28 days of age, challenged intranasally with a lethal dose of influenza virus. While IIV alone or with CpG adjuvant provided minimal protection, Advax alone or combined with CpG55.2 induced enhanced serum anti-influenza IgM and IgG responses to IIV and protected the newborns against clinical disease. Protection induced by a single vaccine dose was highly durable and was still evident 6-9 months after a single neonatal immunization. Protection was lost in B-cell-deficient μMT pups but preserved in β2m knockout pups and in CD4+ and CD8+ T-cell-depleted pups, indicating the importance of intact humoral immunity to the enhanced protection. The neonatal benefits of Advax® and Advax-CpG55.2 adjuvant were confirmed in newborn macaques, where they similarly enhanced serum anti-influenza antibody responses to IIV. This raises the possibility that Advax® adjuvant alone or in combination with CpG55.2 may have utility in improving influenza vaccine protection in human newborns."},"40603376":{"title":"Potential biomarker and composite efficacy readout for human clinical trials of schistosomiasis vaccine in Africa.","abstract":"Schistosomiasis is a chronic disease that inflicts high morbidity and significant mortality with an estimated 90% of cases occurring in sub-Saharan Africa. Development of a vaccine against schistosomiasis is a major global health goal. The SchistoShield (Sm-p80 + GLA-SE) vaccine has consistently exhibited robust efficacy in non-human primate pre-clinical trials, has recently completed Phase 1 clinical trials in the US and Phase 1b trials are ongoing in Africa. To delineate a potential clinical/parasitological endpoint to measure the efficacy of schistosomiasis vaccine during human clinical trials, we have designed an in vitro schistosomula killing assay using sera collected from SchistoShield-vaccinated baboons and human volunteers from the Phase 1 clinical trial. Sm-p80-specific antibodies produced by immunized non-human primates and humans induced statistically significant larval schistosomula killing ex vivo. This reproducible functional assay has the potential to serve as one of the biomarkers for the effectiveness of the SchistoShield vaccine in human trials in Africa."},"40695376":{"title":"An intranasally- and intramuscularly-deliverable nanostructured lipid carrier-replicon RNA vaccine drives protective systemic and mucosal immunity.","abstract":"A nucleic acid vaccine platform that could be flexibly administered either intranasally or intramuscularly could be a valuable new tool for epidemic and pandemic response, combining rapid antigen adaptability with optimal induction of systemic and/or mucosal immune responses most appropriate for a particular pathogen. However, such RNA vaccines have not yet been developed. We have developed and optimized dual intranasal and intramuscular deliverability of a proof-of-concept replicon vaccine expressing an H5 influenza antigen that uses a nanostructured lipid carrier (NLC) delivery system. A relationship was established between the RNA:NLC loading ratio, vaccine particle charge, RNA delivery to cells, and finally intranasal vaccine immunogenicity, allowing for identification of a single vaccine formulation that can be effectively administered via both intramuscular and intranasal routes. The vaccine induced systemic immunity when dosed intramuscularly or intranasally in an immunocompetent mouse model, whereas intranasal dosing uniquely stimulated a strong mucosal immune response. Moreover, a mixed intramuscular/intranasal dosing strategy stimulated a balanced systemic and mucosal immune response. Finally, we demonstrated the protective efficacy of an intranasally- and intramuscularly/intranasally-delivered H5 replicon-NLC vaccine against morbidity and mortality in a lethal H5N1 influenza challenge ferret model."},"40783500":{"title":"Generalized linear modeling of flow cytometry data to analyze immune responses in tuberculosis vaccine research.","abstract":"Tuberculosis (TB) caused by Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) kills ~1.3 million people annually. Accordingly, vaccines and sophisticated analytical tools are necessary to evaluate their effectiveness. To address these challenges, we created a Generalized Linear Model (GLM) framework to evaluate high-dimensional flow cytometry data and the multivariable influences on immune responses, accommodating proportional and non-normal data, and violations of assumptions set by classical statistical evaluations. In naïve mice vaccinated with BCG boosted with ID93-GLA-SE, we used GLMs to assess the impact of sex, vaccination, and days post-infection on probabilities of immune cell phenotypes following Mtb challenge. We demonstrate enhanced T cell responses in the lung following BCG + ID93-GLA-SE compared to BCG or ID93-GLA-SE alone, with notable sex differences in humoral immunity. This framework highlights GLMs in assessing complex datasets while enhancing our comprehension of independent continuous and categorical variables on vaccine efficacy, and serves as a foundation for deeper, more complex scenarios."},"4375349":{"title":"[Glucocorticoid cytoreceptors in normal and tumorous rat liver tissue].","abstract":""},"4826740":{"title":"Letter: o2 content and PaO2.","abstract":""},"4893257":{"title":"Health and disease in the mining industry.","abstract":""},"4927082":{"title":"The survival of Streptococcus pyogenes on bacteriological swabs made from various fibres.","abstract":""},"5216441":{"title":"Lactic acid--some definitions.","abstract":""},"5461379":{"title":"Macroamylasemia: possible role of polysaccharide in composition of macroamylase.","abstract":""},"5483667":{"title":"The effect of nonspecific immune stimulation with corynebacterium parvum on patterns of tumor growth.","abstract":""},"6424635":{"title":"[15N-labelled lysine in colostomized laying hens. 4. Incorporation of 15N-lysine into various amino acids of egg yolk and white].","abstract":"Each of three colostomized laying hens received per os 0.2% L-Lysine with 48 atom-% 15N-excess (15N') labelled in alpha-position in addition to a pelleted laying hen ration of 120 g over a period of 4 days. On the following 4 days they received equal amounts of unlabelled lysine. The eggs laid during the 8 days of the experiment were separated into the white of egg, the yolk and the eggshell, and the to and heavy nitrogen in the individual fractions were determined. Above that, 17 amino acids and their atom-%15N' were determined in the 19 samples of the white and yolk of egg. Of the total 15N' from the lysine fed in the 4 days, 10.1% were found in the yolk, 10.5% in the white of egg and 1.1% in the eggshells of the eggs laid during the 8 days of the experiment. 85% of the total amino acid-15N' of the yolk and 86% of the white of egg detected to be lysine-15N'. The 15N'-amount of the other 16 amino acids was mainly concentrated in the two acid and basic amino acids. Approximately 50% of the non-lysine 15N' in the egg are contained in aspartic acid, glutamic acid, histidine and arginine. A very low incorporation of the labelled lysine only could be detected in the aromatic and sulphur-containing amino acids from both the yolk and the white of egg. 43% of the 15N' was detected in the 10 essential and semi-essential (except lysine) and 57% in the 6 non-essential amino acids of the yolk and 52% and 48% resp. of the white of egg. One can summarize that the incorporation of 15N' into the egg shows the same development as that of the labelled amino acids of the wheat protein and that 15% of the lysine-15N' could be detected in the 16 other amino acids."},"6803349":{"title":"[A new case of the association of ankylosing vertebral hyperostosis and ossification of the common posterior vertebral ligament].","abstract":""},"6957164":{"title":"[A misunderstood type of engineering].","abstract":""},"709978":{"title":"Vascular dynamics in liver scan \"hot spot\".","abstract":""},"7551218":{"title":"A compendium of vaccine adjuvants and excipients.","abstract":""},"8375945":{"title":"T-cell-dependent immunobiological activity of a desmuramyl analog of muramyl dipeptide, adamantylamide dipeptide (AdDP), and D-isoglutamine.","abstract":"The present experiments demonstrate that, similar to immunomodulatory muramyl dipeptide, its desmuramyl analog adamantylamide dipeptide is able to induce mild and fully reversible paw edema in mice. This effect is an immune-related phenomenon depending on the activation of T-cell/macrophage interactions and on production of prostaglandins. Possible involvement of certain immunoregulatory/inflammatory cytokines (e.g. IL-1, IL-2) has been suggested. The most probable intrinsic moiety of the adamantylamide dipeptide molecule responsible for triggering the edema formation is obviously D-isoglutamine."},"8447157":{"title":"Adjuvants--a balance between toxicity and adjuvanticity.","abstract":"Adjuvants have been used to augment the immune response in experimental immunology as well as in practical vaccination for more than 60 years. The chemical nature of adjuvants, their mode of action and the profile of their side effects are highly variable. Some of the side effects can be ascribed to an unintentional stimulation of different mechanisms of the immune system whereas others may reflect general adverse pharmacological reactions. The most common adjuvants for human use today are still aluminium hydroxide, aluminium phosphate and calcium phosphate although oil emulsions, products from bacteria and their synthetic derivatives as well as liposomes have also been tested or used in humans. In recent years monophosphoryl lipid A, ISCOMs with Quil-A and Syntex adjuvant formulation (SAF) containing the threonyl derivative of muramyl dipeptide have been under consideration for use as adjuvants in humans. At present the choice of adjuvants for human vaccination reflects a compromise between a requirement for adjuvanticity and an acceptable low level of side effects."},"8553069":{"title":"C3d of complement as a molecular adjuvant: bridging innate and acquired immunity.","abstract":"An optimal immune response should differentiate between harmful and innocuous antigens. Primitive systems of innate immunity, such as the complement system, may play a role in this distinction. When activated, the C3 component of complement attaches to potential antigens on microorganisms. To determine whether this alters acquired immune recognition, mice were immunized with a recombinant model antigen, hen egg lysozyme (HEL), fused to murine C3d. HEL bearing two and three copies of C3d was 1000- and 10,000-fold more immunogenic, respectively, than HEL alone. Thus, C3d is a molecular adjuvant of innate immunity that profoundly influences an acquired immune response."},"8961504":{"title":"International bank for foot-and-mouth disease vaccine: assessment of Montanide ISA 25 and ISA 206, two commercially available oil adjuvants.","abstract":"The International Vaccine Bank at Pirbright has recently installed large-scale vaccine formulation equipment for the preparation of oil-adjuvanted vaccines. Such vaccines are claimed to offer a number of advantages over Al(OH)3, particularly their ability to raise better immunity in pigs. This paper reports on the potency in pigs, cattle and guinea-pigs of foot-and-mouth disease vaccines prepared with two novel oil adjuvants, Montanide ISA 25 and 206 (Seppic, Paris). The results indicate that vaccines adjuvanted with these oils retain potency for a longer period than our conventional aqueous formulation, following storage at +4 degrees C, and elicit good antibody responses in both pigs and cattle regardless of injection route. In addition they gave no evidence of toxicity or prolonged pyrexia following their administration. Local reactions at the site of inoculation were not observed in cattle vaccinated intramuscularly, even following a booster dose. Pigs vaccinated intramuscularly only showed local reactions if the volume administered exceeded the 2.0 ml dose or the animals received a second vaccination. These observations on the efficacy of such oil formulated vaccines suggest that they have potential as an alternative to the current aqueous formulation."},"9013982":{"title":"Molecular adjuvant effects of a conformationally biased agonist of human C5a anaphylatoxin.","abstract":"A conformationally biased decapeptide agonist of human C5a anaphylatoxin (YSFKPMPLaR) was used as a molecular adjuvant in stimulating Ab responses against peptide epitopes derived from human MUC1 glycoprotein and the human mu and kappa opioid receptors. C57BL6 mice were immunized with the MUC1 epitope (YKQGGFLGL); the C5a agonist (YSFKPMPLaR); YSFKPMPLaR and YKQGGFLGL together, but unconjugated; a C5a-active, MUC1 epitope construct (YKQGGFLGLYSFKPMPLaR); and a C5a-inactive, reversed moiety construct (YSFKPMPLaRYKQGGFLGL). High Ab titers specific for the MUC1 epitope were observed only in mice immunized with the C5a-active epitope construct. Similar results were obtained in BALB/c mice immunized with the C5a-active, MUC1 epitope construct. Abs from the sera of the C57BL6 mice were predominately of the IgG2a, IgG2b, and IgM isotypes and were reactive against human recombinant MUC1 and MUC1 expressed by the Panc-1 M1F.15 pancreatic cell line. When compared with the corresponding KLH-epitope conjugates in C57BL6 mice, the epitope-C5a agonist constructs produced titers of specific IgG Abs of isotypes distinct from those generated by the keyhole limpet hemocyanin-epitope conjugates. Rabbits immunized with a mu opioid receptor epitope-C5a agonist construct (GDLSDPCGNRTNLGGRDSLYSFKPMPLaR) or a kappa opioid receptor epitope-C5a agonist construct (FPGWAEPDSNGSEDAQLYSFKPMPLaR) generated high titer, epitope-specific Ab responses. Ab titers generated in response to the opioid epitope-C5a agonist constructs were comparable to those generated by the opioid KLH-epitope conjugates. The results of this study are discussed in terms of possible mechanisms by which the conformationally biased C5a agonist serves as a molecular adjuvant."},"9529328":{"title":"Mucosal adjuvanticity and immunogenicity of LTR72, a novel mutant of Escherichia coli heat-labile enterotoxin with partial knockout of ADP-ribosyltransferase activity.","abstract":"Heat-labile Escherichia coli enterotoxin (LT) has the innate property of being a strong mucosal immunogen and adjuvant. In the attempt to reduce toxicity and maintain the useful immunological properties, several LT mutants have been produced. Some of these are promising mucosal adjuvants. However, so far, only those that were still toxic maintained full adjuvanticity. In this paper we describe a novel LT mutant with greatly reduced toxicity that maintains most of the adjuvanticity. The new mutant (LTR72), that contains a substitution Ala --> Arg in position 72 of the A subunit, showed only 0.6% of the LT enzymatic activity, was 100,000-fold less toxic than wild-type LT in Y1 cells in vitro, and was at least 20 times less effective than wild-type LT in the rabbit ileal loop assay in vivo. At a dose of 1 microg, LTR72 exhibited a mucosal adjuvanticity, similar to that observed with wild-type LT, better than that induced by the nontoxic, enzymatically inactive LTK63 mutant, and much greater than that of the recombinant B subunit. This trend was consistent for both the amounts and kinetics of the antibody induced, and priming of antigen-specific T lymphocytes. The data suggest that the innate high adjuvanticity of LT derives from the independent contribution of the nontoxic AB complex and the enzymatic activity. LTR72 optimizes the use of both properties: the enzymatic activity for which traces are enough, and the nontoxic AB complex, the effect of which is dose dependent. In fact, in dose-response experiments in mice, 20 microg of LTR72 were a stronger mucosal adjuvant than wild-type LT. This suggests that LTR72 may be an excellent candidate to be tested in clinical trials."},"9607006":{"title":"Protection against Helicobacter pylori infection in mice by intragastric vaccination with H. pylori antigens is achieved using a non-toxic mutant of E. coli heat-labile enterotoxin (LT) as adjuvant.","abstract":"We have previously shown that infection of mice with H. pylori can be prevented by oral immunization with H. pylori antigens given together with E. coli heat-labile enterotoxin (LT) as adjuvant. Since LT cannot be used in humans because of its unacceptable toxicity, we investigated whether protection of mice could be achieved by co-administration of antigens with non-toxic LT mutants. Here we show that CD1/SPF mice are protected against infection after oral vaccination with either purified H. pylori antigens (native and recombinant VacA, urease and CagA), or whole-cell vaccine formulations, given together with the non-toxic mutant LTK63 as a mucosal adjuvant. Furthermore we show that such protection is antigen-specific since immunization with recombinant or native VacA plus LTK63 conferred protection against infection by an H. pylori Type I strain, which expresses VacA, but not against challenge with a Type II strain which is not able to express this antigen. These results show that: (1) protection against H. pylori can be achieved in the mouse model of infection using subunit recombinant constructs plus non-toxic mucosal adjuvants; and (2) this mouse model is an useful tool in testing H. pylori vaccine formulations for eventual use in humans."},"9704675":{"title":"Gene therapy for non-small cell lung cancer: a preliminary report of a phase I trial of adenoviral p53 gene replacement.","abstract":"The identification of genetic lesions that lead a normal cell to become malignant presents us with the opportunity of targeting those lesions as a means of therapy. Given the key role played by the tumor suppressor gene p53 in cell cycle regulation and apoptosis, and the evidence linking p53 mutations with non-small cell lung cancer, attempts at p53 replacement are a logical approach to therapy in this disease. In a phase I study, administration of an adenoviral p53 vector (Adp53) to 21 patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer produced little toxicity. Up to six intratumoral injections at monthly intervals were well-tolerated. Expression of the p53 transgene was evident, along with potentially useful clinical responses. Time to disease progression in the indicator lesion treated with Adp53 appears to be enhanced by higher doses of vector, concomitant cisplatin therapy, and evidence of apoptosis on tumor biopsy specimens. Phase II trials should now be undertaken to determine the response rate to Adp53."}}